DOCTOR: How are you?
PATIENT: Uh, beta meta fela.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: You knew what I said.
DOCTOR: Yeah.  Have a seat here sir.
PATIENT: So I saw that one nurse.  I says DOCTOR and I says he's got to be Greek and uh she said I don't know what he is.  I says well I'll know right away when I say something to him and if he acknowledges me I'll know he's Greek.  But nobody comes in here and say beta meta fela huh?
DOCTOR: No, no, “Good morning friend?”.  Where did you pick that up out of curiosity?
PATIENT: And I'll give you one more before we get started.
DOCTOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Kalo pascha.
DOCTOR: Kalo pascha.  Happy Easter.  That's coming up.
PATIENT: Is it the same or?
DOCTOR: This year it's the same.
PATIENT: Well you know what they say.
DOCTOR: Happens to fall on the same day.
PATIENT: Do you know the date?
DOCTOR: Uh April, I'd like to say the 4th, is it the 4th.  I was going to say the 6th.
PATIENT: And this Sunday, what happens this Sunday?
DOCTOR: This Sunday uh.
PATIENT: We go on Daylight Savings Time, turn the clock ahead one hour.
DOCTOR: That's important, thanks for reminding me.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: I'm sure I was gonna hear about it on the news or something.
PATIENT: So.  Uh it goes like this, spring ahead and fall back.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: So if you can never remember, always this, when spring comes it's ahead, spring ahead, fall back.
DOCTOR: Fall back.
PATIENT: Fall you drop it back an hour, spring you put it up an hour.
DOCTOR: Spring forward.
PATIENT: Right.  Okay.
DOCTOR: Okay, I know you see or you've seen maybe once, DOCTOR uh a few months ago in December um and at that time you know you're a pretty healthy guy for your age, that's what she kind of said and then.
PATIENT: Oh that young woman that was studying to be a doctor?
DOCTOR: Yeah, the blond one.
PATIENT: Yes.
DOCTOR: Blond female.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: And uh you saw an ophthalmologist uh and a dermatologist correct?  The skin doctor and the.
PATIENT: The skin doctor yes.  I had seborrheic keratosis.
DOCTOR: And they freezed some of them and they did some cryo [REDACTED].
PATIENT: It worked pretty good, you know why, because one was here and this one right there was uh a little bit bigger than my thumb nail.
DOCTOR: Yeah it was good size.
PATIENT: Well how does it look?
DOCTOR: Looks pretty good.
PATIENT: And then I got one over here but - what I forgot about, I don't know if they work, does it work on moles?
DOCTOR: Um, not necessarily, depends, why which one?
PATIENT: Cause years ago I was always told you never tamper with a mole.
DOCTOR: Well.
PATIENT: So I had one here that it isn't so pronounced and I used to treat it a lot and I thought I'd get completely get rid of it but then you know sometimes you get impatient and you give up.
DOCTOR: Yeah.  I don't think they would freeze it per say they would probably have to uh maybe make a small cut and uh.
PATIENT: And then I had one back here.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And uh I said I should of had that but as I say I don't see it and my daughter says well why didn't you get rid of that one while you were at it and I said you know I never asked that question if you can uh.
DOCTOR: I mean is it bothersome for you or just more for cosmetics?
PATIENT: No they didn't bother me.  This one did cause this one was starting to get bigger and this was getting bigger and bigger and then the one on the leg, it was ugly and they are, they're ugly things you know and I met a guy uh in the grocery store and he had a lot of them on his face.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And he says I just thought they were old age.
DOCTOR: Well they kind of are but uh.
PATIENT: Yeah.  So uh well I had mine removed and he said no kidding, he says how'd you do that and I says at Hines.  Hines, he said I go there all of the time so, this guy's a real nice guy and he's a religious guy.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: And he works for a company that prints Bibles but I don't want to get into, you know talk to you for an hour about that stuff but uh I told him what to do and I told him to make an appointment and see DOCTOR and uh they will have this frozen nitrogen, I thought it was oxygen and I was corrected, it was nitrogen.
DOCTOR: Yeah nitrogen.
PATIENT: 350 degrees below zero.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean that's cold.
DOCTOR: Yeah the freeze killed it basically.
PATIENT: Oooh.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].  So.
PATIENT: Well my biggest problem is with you, is what I come to see is I have trouble when I work or keep my hands like driving a car or something.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: The fingers will go numb.  This one here, here.  This one only 1/2 on the inside.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And the thumb here and here.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I got arthritis in a few of the fingers but both of those.
DOCTOR: Both sides go numb?
PATIENT: Yeah and the left is the worst of the two.
DOCTOR: And it's more when you're.
PATIENT: And it's more when I do this and I was talking to a guy one time and he says get some x-rays of the shoulder and the back area and he says and see what that will show you.  He says that may show you you've got something out of alignment back there.
DOCTOR: That can be.  The one I want you to do first though is uh go like this and put your hands together and let me know if that uh, hold it there for about 30 seconds and let me know if that uh brings on the symptoms with the numbness.
PATIENT: I can feel a little bit of the pain in my shoulder, on my left shoulder.
DOCTOR: But you don't feel any numbness or tingling in your uh fingers?
PATIENT: Yeah there's a little bit.
DOCTOR: A little bit with that?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Another thing uh I want to do, I’ll reach into my pocket here.
PATIENT: You got parents living in Greece?
DOCTOR: Uh my parents they live here but I have grandparents in Greece though.
PATIENT: Yeah they got a lot of financial problems huh.
DOCTOR: Yeah I mean, I think it's kind of been blown out of proportion you know by the media a little bit.
PATIENT: Oh.
DOCTOR: There's you know a lot of speculators which are causing more problems but yeah they have a.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Big debt...
PATIENT: Yeah they have a lot of problems though.
DOCTOR: You know the government.
PATIENT: A lot of rioting in the streets and all that stuff.
DOCTOR: Yeah cause the way they want to correct the problems is by taking money, taxing you know people that are middle class or poor and you know, I mean.
PATIENT: Well that.
DOCTOR: And then these politicians that have you now offshore companies that don't pay taxes to the Greek government or you know these people that make a lot of money in Greece, they don't pay any taxes.
PATIENT: Yeah people are broke.  They can't pay their car payment or house payment.  Their house, whatever and then they want to increase taxes on them.  Some of them are losing their jobs.  What are they gonna pay it with?
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: How can you tax a man that has no money?
DOCTOR: Someone in Greece will get paid, let's say you're a teacher then you have to go to college for that, you get paid 1000 Euros a month, that's like 12,000 Euros a year and the cost of living is not that much different than here, at this point with the Euro and everything.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: So it's not a whole lot of money and you're gonna tax these people, I mean tax the.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: It's just they're too corrupt there; I mean they just steal so much money.
PATIENT: They sold their soul to the devil.
DOCTOR: Yeah I mean they're kind of traitors to their own country basically but uh, I mean.  But no one can do anything about it I guess so, I'm going to press here.
PATIENT: Alright.
DOCTOR: And you tell me if that brings on the symptoms okay?  The numbness and tingling.
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: No okay.
PATIENT: Are you hitting the carpal tunnel?
DOCTOR: Yeah, let me try this side.  No, no numbness or tingling?
PATIENT: You know what I was hearing that will correct carpal tunnel?
DOCTOR: Sorry.
PATIENT: Do you know what I heard will cure carpal tunnel?
DOCTOR: What's that?
PATIENT: Take vitamin B6, for several months and you won't have any carpal tunnel problems.
DOCTOR: I think some kind of nerve issues are affected by B vitamins so I can see you know why they say that.
PATIENT: Yeah I was surprised to see this [REDACTED] alternative.
DOCTOR: You don't have any pain when I press there in your fingers?
PATIENT: Uh a little bit on the left when you did that but in the right no, no.
DOCTOR: But here you feel.
PATIENT: Yeah I can feel a little sensitive right there.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Um, so it's mainly when you're doing this?
PATIENT: Yeah, you know what I'm driving like that, boy then all of a sudden you know what will happen, you get pain over here and then it'll flood, I mean like it's really blow up or something on the tip of that left finger.
DOCTOR: Do you take any uh pain medications?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Ibuprofen or Tylenol or anything like that?
PATIENT: Like I told the one nurse those are classified as NSAIDs, I don't take NSAIDs.
DOCTOR: Okay, why?  Have you had a bleed before or?
PATIENT: Do you know what NSAIDs do?
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: Whatever condition you have.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: It will cause it to deteriorate.  It will kill the pain but will cause the condition to worsen and I haven't gotten this from one person, I did this from a lot of reading.
DOCTOR: Yeah they can do that.
PATIENT: So I'm more than double your age and I, that's all I do anymore is read that stuff.  You know what NSAIDs are huh?
DOCTOR: Well of course I do, I'm a doctor.
PATIENT: Okay.  I'm glad to hear you admit it.
DOCTOR: So um do you take Tylenol for your pain?
PATIENT: No aspirin, no Tylenol, ibuprofen, none of that.  Sometimes I will endure the pain rather than take a painkiller.
DOCTOR: Why not aspirin?
PATIENT: I just won't take them, won't have them in my system cause they're not good for and what if you take them and uh you get a little bit of relief in pain, you'll say oh I better take another and another and the first thing you know you're gonna almost be like a form of addiction.
DOCTOR: Those aren't habit-forming I mean.
PATIENT: Well I say it will be like a form of addiction because you're getting relief.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I don't want to go into that.
DOCTOR: So you don't want to try Tylenol or?
PATIENT: No if you tell me some good food, Greek food will help it; I'll listen to you on that.
DOCTOR: What if I tell you there's a cream called capsaicin cream.
PATIENT: Capsaicin yes, my wife tells me to do that, put it on my knee cause I have an arthritic knee and I said I tried it many times and it really doesn't, for me it doesn't help.
DOCTOR: Natural though.
PATIENT: I know it.
DOCTOR: It's made from peppers.
PATIENT: Cyan peppers.
DOCTOR: Yes.
PATIENT: Capsaicin yeah I tried it.
DOCTOR: It doesn't, it doesn't help you huh.
PATIENT: It didn't do me any good.  In fact one thing I tried, which you may be familiar you may not, but there's a doctor in Oak Park and there was another doctor that worked with him, they were the only two in the whole state of Illinois.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: That used to uh perform prolotherapy and if I was younger it would work but on older people it doesn't work.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I had relief for the first couple of months, the right knee when I had on there I don't have much problem at all with it but this left one I have problems with and I had about 16 treatments.  I have heard where another doctor from Arizona practiced prolozone with ozone.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: And he says what he found out that prolotherapy worked on younger people very well but he got to the older ones he didn't get the results.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: So somehow he got my head on the idea prolozone and he says he gets results with the older people with prolozone.  This guy that does it over here will not do it.
DOCTOR: He won't do it, in Oak Park.
PATIENT: So maybe I think he's got enough business in the one that he won't go into something else.
DOCTOR: Yeah it probably costs a lot to get; maybe it's a different machine or something.
PATIENT: Yeah, there's no machine involved.
DOCTOR: What is proto, what is ozone, what is?
PATIENT: It's like uh, it's like a sweet liquid and they inject it into the meniscus and the tendons and the uh ligaments and then simultaneously in that injection they all put in another, I can't remember the right name of it, but it's just like novocaine for the teeth and it's a painkiller see.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So that'll help kill the pain and if he was putting that stuff in and then what the knee would do, it would heat up and get bigger and puff up and kind of stiffen a little bit and would kind of restrict your movement.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Now let's say you sprained your ankle.  It gets painful and it puffs up real big.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And this is God's way of healing you because it gets hot, the blood circulation starts flowing through there and then it causes it to heal and when it gets puffed up like that it restricts the movement so you're not moving too well but when people tell you to put ice on it, now you're restricting or stopping God's method of healing it.  See the heat that causes it to automatically is healing but if you put the ice packs on their and all the sports players and doctor will tell you ice packs, ice packs, that's wrong, it's wrong.  They're not studying what Mother Nature does.  Each body heals by itself a certain way.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: In that hot blood movement, [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Sometimes if they want to decrease the flow and the ice will help decrease the swelling.
PATIENT: I know but when you decrease the swelling that's what defeats the healing process.
DOCTOR: Yeah I mean.
PATIENT: If you think what I'm telling you.
DOCTOR: It sounds reasonable, it sounds like it makes sense.
PATIENT: It does make sense and it isn't from the one doctor over there and he had a book that he compiled maybe 25 or 30 doctors that did this.  In fact he's the third generation of doctors who's doing this.  This was first done by a DOCTOR was 70 some years ago.
DOCTOR: Oh.
PATIENT: He had results on that and then when he gave up the practice when he got older another doctor took it over and this is the third, this guy's in his 50s and he's taken over doing this kind of stuff.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Where there's 70 years of this and yet you won't get doctors that'll admit it and say oh let's look into that it's something good.
DOCTOR: Right.  Otherwise you don't have many other medical problems it doesn't look like.
PATIENT: No that's.
DOCTOR: You don't have high blood pressure, diabetes, anything like that.
PATIENT: She took my blood pressure.
DOCTOR: Yeah it looks like its fine so.
PATIENT: Is yours better?
DOCTOR: No mines higher.
PATIENT: You wish yours would be like mine?
DOCTOR: Yeah and I'm a lot younger than you are so.
PATIENT: That's what I say.  I told the nurse I says there's a lot of older, lot of younger people wish they had my blood pressure.
DOCTOR: Yeah you are blessed.
PATIENT: Well, I'm a little more than blessed.  I eat good foods.
DOCTOR: Well you take care of yourself too, that's a.
PATIENT: Yes and I do exercise almost daily.
DOCTOR: Good and you take care of uh your wife correct?
PATIENT: Yes.
DOCTOR: She's uh sick with something or?
PATIENT: Yes she's got high blood pressure and COPD; she's got bad emphysema from years of smoking.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: If I could help her, if I could give up some of my health, I'd give it to her for her to heal well.
DOCTOR: Um otherwise when you get this pain in your fingers uh the numbness, where does it feel.  Does it feel like it's coming from up top going down?
PATIENT: Sometimes it feels like in the back or in the shoulder.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Up in that area because when I worked on my job.
DOCTOR: Does it radiate down?
PATIENT: Yeah it kind of feels like it does and then it'll go in here and as I say there are certain times when I put a certain way, this thing will get real numb and it feels like it's puffing up.  It isn't any bigger.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: But at one time, when I was a kid, I worked in a freight yard and I slashed that thing open to the bone and I used to have trouble every winter, that thing would get numb.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And then after that, it took about 10-12 years, then it got away you know, the nerves started finding each other and getting together and all that stuff.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I didn't have much pain but then as I got older I started having pain and I have a lot of good friends and one was telling me PATIENT come over uh we'll give you these things AP therapy, you know what AP therapy is?
DOCTOR: No.
PATIENT: It's bee venom therapy and there's an organization in Ohio that does nothing but work with bees to cure people's health.  In fact there's a man named NAME, I don't think he's living anymore but he lived in New York and he used to treat people for 40 years with bee venom therapy, bee stings okay.  So he had a woman in there, a very wealthy woman came from Europe, she stayed in one of the big expensive hotels just to see him to get well and she couldn't hear and he gave her a bunch of bee stings one day and she got ashen grey and I better stop, that's it, she didn't look good at all.  He thought maybe I over did it, I gave her too big of a dose you know.  The following day she called him up, DOCTOR you must come to my hotel immediately, don't delay at all, immediately come over I've got a problem.  He went over there and he asked what is the problem.  She said I, for the first time in my life, can hear the church bells ringing.  He cured her deafness with bee venom therapy and if you talk to many Greeks they've been doing this for thousands of years and healing people with bee venom.  In fact I learned how to give it to myself, I gave myself in different parts of the body over 250 bee stings over a period of time you know and I gave my wife about almost 100.
DOCTOR: Did you feel better?
PATIENT: I learned how to do that.
DOCTOR: Do you feel it helped you?
PATIENT: It did help me for a while.  In fact on the knee I tried that but dog gone it, it wasn't a long lasting relief.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Interesting.
PATIENT: Yeah.  Uh bees, in fact here's a real short story listen.  Many years ago in Europe there was this man and his wife, they grew bees in beehives alright and they had this little girl there, she was just being born so they thought she was gonna die.  So they started giving her honey.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: All that everybody tells you to do not give honey to a child, it's no good for them, well it got her well, so well and strong that she survived life and at the age of 2 years she was the most robust, healthy little girl you ever saw but one day she was out in the yard and she accidentally hit one of the bee hives, dumped it over and then she had bee stings all over her, had more than 250 bee stings, ordinarily that would have killed anybody the first initial shock but because they fed her bee honey, that served as an antidote and after a week or so it was a nonevent.  The bee stings didn't swell up, she didn't have any side effects from it and she was just a healthy kid running around again.
DOCTOR: Huh, that's interesting.  I really like honey I mean you know it's popular you in Greece we eat a lot with breakfast.
PATIENT: Raw honey from a beekeeper is the best form cause sometimes they heat it up and all that stuff when they get the wax off.  The wax, the best way to eat honey is from the honeycomb.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: In fact when they were curing people in Oak Park one guy wanted to build a beehive, they're talking about doing that right now.  I just read an article recently in the paper they want to build beehives over there to get people well.
DOCTOR: Huh.
PATIENT: Well I didn't come here to educate you.
DOCTOR: I know.
PATIENT: I come over here to get help.
DOCTOR: Do you want help with this pain in your fingers?
PATIENT: Yeah, so I mean what I want to do is have an x-ray up in the shoulder and back and see if you can detect something up in their.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: That's out of alignment that's causing this problem.
DOCTOR: Okay.  We can do that.  Otherwise, can I have you do a few things for me?  Can you just squeeze my finger sir as hard as you can, good.  Does that cause any pain.
PATIENT: It doesn't cause anything sort of pain.
DOCTOR: Lift up your arms like this, pull me in towards you, pull me in towards you.  Got some biceps on you there huh.  Push me away.  Push me away this way; push me away this way with this one okay.  Lift your arms up like this; don't let me push you down, pretty good.  Does that bring out any pain?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: Nothing.
DOCTOR: Like this, all the way push it down with this one, good.  You're pretty strong for your age huh.  Any pain when I push here on your spine?  No.
PATIENT: No not on the spine.
DOCTOR: So if you make this motion like this, this is when you feel the pain?
PATIENT: Yeah when I'm driving.
DOCTOR: When you're driving.
PATIENT: You know and with the hands you know stretched out like this, sometimes I have to put them down to.
DOCTOR: So if I move your arm up like this do you feel any of that pain in your fingers from your shoulders or?  No.  How about if you move your arms kind of.
PATIENT: Sometimes it will do that, like if I try to get this shoulder I have to pull this over like that you know scratch it.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And it will always itch [REDACTED] like that and make me get up.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED] a lot?
PATIENT: No but this one will hurt when I go this way then this will hurt up in here.
DOCTOR: Okay, but it's the stretching of the muscles.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: I mean.
PATIENT: It will hurt up in there.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: And usually about 195 pounds and when my wife was going to the doctor and she had to lose some weight so I says the only way I can get her to lose weight is.
DOCTOR: If you.
PATIENT: Cut down on the food because she wants to eat as much as I did all her life so I would cut down and I lost the weight and now I can't put the dog gone weight back on.
DOCTOR: I mean your symptoms actually sounds like you have more arthritis in your fingers um.  I don't think you have anything going on in your cervical spine and your shoulder.
PATIENT: Well I was told one time there may be something up in the uh shoulder or in the neck area you know, up in that area.
DOCTOR: But I mean you're doing all these maneuvers without much problem and it's not reproducing your symptoms.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: That means it's probably not coming from up there, it's probably localized in here.
PATIENT: More so in the hand.
DOCTOR: When you're gripping hard, you know, it's probably arthritis in your fingers.
PATIENT: And you know what, as I get older I take cod liver oil.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: My dog gone hands they get so slippery, so smooth, I have a hard time holding things.  I get a pair of gloves on its like rubber.  I can gather stuff and pick it up, no problems because it will not slip out of my hands but they're so shiny and slippery like this and I'm doing dishes all the time and that's why I don't have hard hands.  I used to have real.
DOCTOR: Rough hands.
PATIENT: Rough hands you know.
DOCTOR: I mean I don't think there's any point in doing x-rays there.  We can do x-rays here to see if you have what degree of arthritis.
PATIENT: Well whatever you think it could be you know but I was told from one guy one time that that's probably what's causing it.
DOCTOR: Well.
PATIENT: Like when I'm holding like this, I'm picking my arms up right.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And then if I'm driving for a while then things will get numb.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I'll have to go, arm down and.
DOCTOR: Yeah I think it's from the pressure you're putting you know on the steering wheel from your fingers.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: You know these nerves that go there, if you're holding it fairly tight you're compressing the nerves.  So it seems like that, I don't think it's coming down from here cause I would be able to reproduce it or you'd be able to reproduce here with some of your maneuvers.
PATIENT: Well like I say, when it will start to hurt too much and I'd roll my hands, see now I'm rolling my hands down like this or something like that I'll hold the bottom and then the shoulders aren't up there and I'm holding the steering wheel on the lower side.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: To lessen the pain.
DOCTOR: I mean if you want we can get x-rays of everything of your neck, shoulders, hands I mean.
PATIENT: Well.
DOCTOR: I don't, personally I think you have arthritis you know, but I know you have.
PATIENT: I know I have arthritis.
DOCTOR: Right so I mean for arthritis, you come to a medical doctor we're gonna you know give you NSAIDs or Tylenol or something along those lines.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Or capsaicin cream.  There's not much else we give for arthritis.
PATIENT: Well that's why I was taking some bee stings because uh that's supposed to be curing the arthritis.
DOCTOR: Right.  Well let me.
PATIENT: Well if you put it in the joints or something on that.
DOCTOR: Would you be willing to try any, it sounded like you weren't any Tylenol or ibuprofen.
PATIENT: I won't go that route.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I'm too old and I learned too much about it and too many side effects cause they're not good and I won't go that route.
DOCTOR: I mean Tylenol doesn't have very many side effects if you take it in uh modest amounts.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Like anything you can't overdose on it or else it's gonna be harmful.
PATIENT: Yeah.  If it comes to the alternative to live with the pain and do without that, I will live with the pain.
DOCTOR: Really.  Even if you could get relief?
PATIENT: Even if it will kill the pain because in the long run it helps deteriorate the conditions that I have.  As time goes by, a year or two go by.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: And I keep taking pain relievers then this is gonna get worse.
DOCTOR: Not necessarily.  The NSAIDs are anti-inflammatory, have anti-inflammatory properties um.  The only harmful effects they have are on the kidneys which we have to watch and then it can cause gastric ulcers in your stomach.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: But that's if you take great amounts of them.  If you're taking them around-the-clock every day but if you're just taking it when you feel some pain or before you're gonna drive if you take one, I don't think.
PATIENT: I would taking them several times a day because every so often I may just hurt you know.  No I can do this completely close my hand.  When I first wake up in the morning I can close this one but this one gives me trouble right here.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: Especially this one, I can get these three fingers in their but I can't here, in fact you can see this.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: Right here, you know that's.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Arthritis.
DOCTOR: It’s arthritis.  So I mean I can order, if you have arthritis in one joint we could give a steroid shot there but you know actually that would probably be the most harmful to the joint.  It would get rid of the inflammation but it will eat up the bone.
PATIENT: Yeah those steroids and cortisone.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: In fact cortisone, if you take it long enough you become addicted.
DOCTOR: Well I mean, those aren't habit-forming.  Cortisone is a steroid, it's not habit-forming.
PATIENT: I got papers with evidence of.
DOCTOR: Well, you know I don't trust papers where there isn't a doctor or an MD or Ph. D. that's signing on it, someone that you know.
PATIENT: Let me tell you one little story.  This happened to DOCTOR.  He's a great doctor on the west coast alright.  He originally I think came from Australia.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And he found when he worked in his hospital, an alternative way of treating a patient and got the patient well.  So he went to the head administrator and told him he says see how well this worked, my patient is really well maybe we should try this more often.  Guess what the reply was from the administrator?
DOCTOR: No.
PATIENT: You do that one more time you don't work here anymore.
DOCTOR: Well I'm not saying that there isn't a culture where you know there's skepticism from uh you know.
PATIENT: You fight a clique. I know you fight a clique.  The AMA is a union; it's not a good organization for doctors.  It's nothing but a union and they will fight you like anything.  If you don't want to prescribe any medicines and you want to start using alternative stuff and they hear about this, you may lose your job.
DOCTOR: Well I think for certain conditions there is a standard of care so if I don't do what the standard of care is and someone sues me then I'm gonna be living on the street so there is a standard of care there.
PATIENT: Did you ever hear of NAME?
DOCTOR: No.
PATIENT: He wrote a book, you ought to read this book.  This thing is beautiful.  He came from Europe.  I think he originally came from Germany to tell you the truth.  When he was a kid he was very sick.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: And they put him in the hospital and uh the doctor said to him NAME I can do no more for you uh you're gonna get sick and you're gonna die so you may as well go home, lay in your bed and lay there and die rather than tie up a room over in the hospital what other patients can be used.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: So he went home and when he got home he had a great uncle, aged old man and he came over to see NAME and he said NAME do you wish to get well?  Oh uncle by all means.  Well I will tell you how to get well.  He says you only eat what will spoil.  If the food will not spoil you do not eat it.  You only eat the food that will spoil, guess what.  He listened to him, a couple years later he's a big strapping healthy guy, 6 feet 5, well over 200 pounds and he goes around the world checking with all the best doctors in the world that heal people and he's putting all that in the book and then he has seminars and people come all over the world, kings and queens, people with big bucks come to see NAME to get well and healthy again.
DOCTOR: Well I'll check out the book, NAME, I'll remember that.  Um sir I'm sorry I have two more patients to see in a short period of time.
PATIENT: That's why I say I don't want to tie you up.
DOCTOR: Is there anything else that I can do for you.  I mean you have arthritis, that's my diagnosis of what you have uh.  I've offered you a few options.
PATIENT: Yes.
DOCTOR: I know you're not, you know you're not a big fan of them, um is there something else you want to address at this visit?
PATIENT: This stuff bothers me more than anything.
DOCTOR: Okay.  I mean you don't want to try the NSAIDs or Tylenol.
PATIENT: No I want to see if you get an x-ray up there if it shows anything.
DOCTOR: I mean you're gonna have arthritis there.  It's not gonna show us anything.
PATIENT: You're sure it won't?
DOCTOR: Yeah I mean what else is it going to show us?
PATIENT: Well I don't know one time I fell off of a ladder and I injured my shoulder.
DOCTOR: It won't show us if you have a nerve impingement, an x-ray won't.  You need an MRI for that.  An x-ray will just show us the bones and the architecture just the alignment basically.  I mean I can order that but I don't, I'll order it for you and you can get it done today.  But uh, you know I don't think it's going to show anything to be honest, other than arthritis which everyone at your age would have, some arthritis, some wear and tear.  But we'll order it for you.  You can go down there today and they can do that in Radiology, it's on the first floor.
PATIENT: 136?
DOCTOR: Um, it's like right when you get off that main elevator for the hospital, it's in the back.  Have you ever had blood tests here, I'm not sure.
PATIENT: Oh that's down at 101 or 136.
DOCTOR: Yeah I don't know the exact number.
PATIENT: It says X-Rays down there and all that.
DOCTOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: For DOCTOR.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Okay, do I have any papers to take with me.
DOCTOR: No you just have to take this to the front desk um, on the left side; it's kind of where you'd seen me.
PATIENT: Oh when I go to see you here.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED] okay.
PATIENT: You're not gonna find any guy come in here and stop you like I did.
DOCTOR: No I'm not.  Take care okay.
PATIENT: [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Para callo.
DD: @@/@@/@@
DT: @@/@@/@@
INFOPRO/800511/JOB#  1238088
TRANSACTION # 578-10-2-316-0103