DOCTOR: PATIENT?  How are you doing?
PATIENT: I'm doing okay.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: Yeah [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: We've had so much trouble getting [REDACTED].
PATIENT: [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: Yeah they did one Friday and they're gonna do one this coming Friday and then one more next Friday.  Um like I told my physical therapist has been putting a tape type of mechanism on my, around my knee.  I fell three weeks ago and then after that she put like a little, something she found some type of thing to kind of keep these bones having [REDACTED].  Twice a week she tapes it and then they do kind of a regular [REDACTED] training just trying to help me get some more strength back in it so.
DOCTOR: Do you think it's getting better?
PATIENT: Uh well I haven't fell since she's been doing this taping and it's been feeling a lot better.  Uh it hasn't gave out on me or anything and uh like my orthopedist said it might be just that I need to get more strength in it but he said to not to any running or anything so.  I just been doing her exercises, working with the band and uh going through the steps up and down [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: I know DOCTOR had talked to you on the phone.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: And you had talked to the orthopedic surgeon as well.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: And the surgeon said, cause we were trying to get some more details about why they wouldn't do the surgery and it sounded like it was something that it would really help but they didn't write a whole lot in their notes.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: You know the time they spend with patients, and the time they spending the notes is only a fraction of that.
PATIENT: Right.
DOCTOR: We tried to get the complete conversations written in.  So they talked about and they said that first of all you actually [REDACTED] surgery but they would do it if they really thought it would help but fortunately some of the things that you are describing with the locking and catching they didn't think that from what they saw on the MRI, it didn't sound like they really wanted to do that, so that didn't want to do the surgery.
PATIENT: Hmm.
DOCTOR: And have the problems you're having.  They only wanted to do surgery if they could say what we see is what exactly what sounds like is happening so we know that if we do the surgery we can fix it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: But they didn’t want the surgery [REDACTED].
PATIENT: And as you said Friday, after we do the, after the injections he said we'll take some time to see if I can get some more strength and he said from, you know since the time I fell and to now it seem like it's responding better, getting a little more strength and like I say I'm not doing too much but exercising and trying to get some strength in it so maybe when I go through this, you know see what happens after that.  But my thing was, like I told him, I don't know when I'm going to fall or not so before I see the taping you know and everything I could just doing the normal activity [REDACTED].  Like when I go to the Mall with my mom, fell down the escalators and I, you know they thought I did it on purpose but to file me a claim but like I said it's just unfortunate that the times that I do fall I don't know so.  Like I say I'm just trying to get some strength in it and see if these injections.  But they did say I'm too young for the knee replacement unless it's just the last resort because I might need one 10 or maybe 15 years later depending on how good my legs are, I'm getting strength back and [REDACTED] so.  I told them I'll try anything just to you know so I can get around normal.  I just don't like the fact that I'm so limited now, can't work and going through some personal problems because of this so I'm just trying to stay strong that's it.
DOCTOR: Yeah, how are your kids doing?
PATIENT: Oh son's doing fine, he's in school.  He's skipping kindergarten and they put him in first grade.
DOCTOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: So he's autistic so that's great uh.  His teachers are really excelling him so, that's better than expected.  But um other than that I just want to be able to get back to work whenever I can because with these economics it makes it hard so.  Like I say I'm going to go through the process of trying to uh get it strengthened and keep up my appointments because DOCTOR, my therapist [REDACTED].  She just looked in the book one day and saw this, she taped it around here and around here and it's kind of, it's even better than this brace cause it kind of keeps this tight to where it's comfortable.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Like I say I wear this because about every two days it kind of wears off and I take it off, I wear this, when I do have to do things it gives me a little more stability, especially on ice or something.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: When they tape it I don't even wear this because it just, it kind of gives me a comfort to where you know it'll pop and I won't you know twist my ankle or nothing like that so I'm real comfortable with that.
DOCTOR: You know at this point do you know how to do this taping by yourself, can you learn from her?
PATIENT: Uh no she's in the process of going to do that but she's so busy and then when I come in she's trying to get me in and get me out but I think this week she's gonna try to get me in and she's gonna teach me how to do it.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: So.
DOCTOR: That's definitely would be helpful.
PATIENT: Yeah cause like I said I haven't fell since she started doing that and I feel comfortable with you know having that on there as opposed to this because you know this is a little heavy and then you know with this ice now it's gonna be hard for me to move around with this.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'd rather they just tape it like this and then try to get some strength in it and see where I go from there.
DOCTOR: How are you doing in terms of the pain control?
PATIENT: Um well the pain I'm just dealing with it because uh like I said I don't want to be addicted to any pain killer so I, they gve me a little prescription when I fell, they gave me 20 tablets but I just take those when it’s really hurting bad and most, the last couple of times I've been taking them it's been a combination of my hip and I just can't deal with it because you know it's too, but other than that I just deal with it and you know I'll elevate it or something but mostly every day it's a little sore but I try to work it out and we do the therapy once or twice a week but as far as just pain the way I'm just, like I was the last one I came in here, still on both sides, it's not much better.  I get some soreness in my hip you know from the weather but it's just more sore if I'm working out but not sore to where I'm lying there and it's excruciating but it hasn't been in a while, but.  Uh I don't know I just want to get better I mean, it's not swollen now or anything and she said it'll probably hurt for two days from the injection but I'm fine right now so.
DOCTOR: Okay. I noticed your skin looked like it’s cleared up a little better.
PATIENT: Yeah that's fair, [REDACTED] I gotta see her I think tomorrow but she said it would take about a month but I been drinking a lot of water.  I've even cut down cigarettes so.  I guess about everything that I'm doing is kind of helping me to feel a little better.
DOCTOR: How much are you down to right now in your cigarettes?
PATIENT: Well I was smoking two packs, I'm down to maybe three cigarettes a day but that's because I got a patch and I been going to see the Smoking Cessation Class so they've been helping me with different things I can substitute to kind of keep me busy cause I just finally want to stay healthy being my meals aren't good so I don't want to be eating wrong and then smoking cigarettes and drinking beer and all that type of stuff.  I cut everything down to try to get myself healthy.
DOCTOR: Good.  No flu shot this year?
PATIENT: No I don't, I've never really had the flu shot.  I never even give my kids one so I was thinking uh if anyone in the house starts getting the flue, maybe I’ll get one but I have never had one so I don't think I should.
DOCTOR: Gotcha.
PATIENT: I was gonna ask you um, what will um, what does a bladder infection feel like? I don't know like I've been taking so many different medications and I've been noticing uh I don't know, a difference in my urinary pattern.  I don't know if it's something I'm taking or if I'm not taking, well I drink a lot of water but I don't know, it's not nothing hurting or anything just something I'm noticing.  It's been different than before.  I don't know if that's because I'm on these medications now I wasn't before or.
DOCTOR: Okay.  [REDACTED].  Cause usually bladder infection is the most common one that I hear, is burning with urination or pain with urination.  Some people they don't have that but then it shows up in different ways.  Sometimes they'll find that you know they have to go to the bathroom a lot more and when they do only a little comes out and that's what we call frequency.  Not that they're actually making more urine they just feel the urge that they have to go.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Um but it's usually rare to have it without that burning sensation.  Some people can also tell when their urine smell changes or they look at it in the bowl and it's more cloudy, more the chance of infection having the urine smell associated it with a lot.  It doesn't smell like urine.
PATIENT: Okay, it's not; it's something you would notice.
DOCTOR: Yes uh it's something you would notice but typically the most common one would be that burning on urination.  If it gets really bad sometimes people will have fevers, chills or they can have back pain.  That could mean that the infection is going back up towards the kidneys.
PATIENT: Oh.
DOCTOR: Usually it just stays in the bladder and it can cause a little bit of pain in your belly.  Do you notice when you have to go to the bathroom?
PATIENT: Yeah and I just noticed a different pattern in my urination habits, sometimes I can drink some water and I'll have to go like almost as soon as I get done with the cup as opposed of saying [REDACTED] 10-15 sodas a day, 12 cups of water, going normal maybe once or twice a day so I don't know if that's just something that's changing in my body or what not but I'm usually conscious of it so that's why I noticed a difference now.  Like I say I've been drinking 22 ounces glasses of water cause I'm drinking a lot of water now and then five minutes after I'm done I have to go to the bathroom so I don't know what that is but.  No burning or any pain or anything I'm just noticing a difference is all.  So I don't know what that is if it's exactly anything but.
DOCTOR: If you don't go to the bathroom does the urge pass or do you end up basically having to go in your pants?
PATIENT: Yeah I have to go.  And like I say if I drink some water or a soda, Kool-Aid or anything, if I don't go then I probably would have an accident but I'm usually just you know hurry up and go, can't hold it, if anything I can't hold it at all.  I mean if I'm on the bus I'll have to get off or in the car I'll have to pull over so I don't know if it's cause I'm drinking a lot of water or so.  Because I don't even drink beer anymore.  I haven't drank beer in maybe a month and a half so it couldn't be the yeast or anything like that so I really don't know.  It's just I can't hold it.
DOCTOR: Have you noticed any discharge or any [REDACTED] with urination?
PATIENT: Well I had a ulcer years back, I don't know if they come and go um.  But just since I would say very little, nothing painful or anything like that but it's just something that I noticed that I haven't noticed before.  I can't say.  I don't have any partners or anything like that so I can't.  I really just can't put my finger on it but like I say I'm conscious of what I put in my body it goes out so I'm just [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: We can [REDACTED] check your urine to see if there's an infection in there.  If there is I can call in a prescription since you'll be here this week you could pick it up in the Pharmacy.
PATIENT: Okay.  Yeah I’ll do that, I’d like to see.
DOCTOR: And at the very least if the urine looks completely clean you can put your mind at ease.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: It could just be the water.
PATIENT: So what else can the urine just check anything that came through the blood or I mean could it just thorough check or is it something that gonna [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Your urine, if you look specifically for um, the urine look specifically for, the urine looks to see if there's any bacteria in there.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Um there is another urine test that I could add on that looks to see if you have any other diseases like, the bacteria we typically look at in the urine are the ones that normally people get if there's a little bit of contamination and like women because where the urine comes out and where the fecal matter comes out is close to together.
PATIENT: Well I would say my girlfriend has a, she's had an intestinal, some kind of intestinal problem.
DOCTOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: And [REDACTED] and I don't know how to explain it but she has problems with her bladder and her bowels and I don't know if that has anything [REDACTED] related to me but she does have a lot of.  She's had some like I said some issues with her bladder and intestines but I don't know if it's anything associated with me or not but maybe that's just something I should mention.
DOCTOR: I don't think you were infected by anyone.  Uh the one other thing that I would add on to this urine test is a urine screening for a sexually transmitted disease but there may be a little bit of discharge and it's kind of hard to tell in men [REDACTED]. That can definitely feel like you have to go to the bathroom a lot. That's the best thing we could do to make sure there's nothing wrong without as much as the burning.
PATIENT: Oh okay.
DOCTOR: As well, so we can check that.  Those are all urine tests.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: And the phone number I have in here for you NUMBER?
PATIENT: Actually I got a new number.
DOCTOR: NUMBER?
PATIENT: Yes.  That's the best one to call me at.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Alright.  Is it okay to leave a message on that?
PATIENT: Sure.
DOCTOR: So the results for this will be back in, uh the urine itself when they just look at it under the microscope probably by the end of today.  The rest of the tests may be another day or two.
PATIENT: Hmm.
DOCTOR: So you can expect to hear from me a some point.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: And you have a.
PATIENT: I'll be here tomorrow and I will be here Friday.
DOCTOR: Friday, so you'll definitely hear from me before Friday that way if you need to pick it up anything you can do so.  And everything else I think you were up-to-date the last time I saw you so I don't think there's anything else we need to do.  Yeah and we're just following along [REDACTED] too young to need anything else..
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Let me talk to DOCTOR.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: And I'll [REDACTED].
PATIENT: Okay.
(DOCTOR OUT:  21:58  DOCTOR IN:  27:23)
DOCTOR: Alrighty.  So we'll just send you over to the Lab to give us a urine sample.  I'll give you a call as soon as the results come back, definitely before Friday to let you know.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: And in terms of disease [REDACTED].  When do you want to see me back here?
PATIENT: Um, maybe a month [REDACTED] that's because my shots will be done by then and I should be through with my therapy, that way I can compare the notes [REDACTED] so I can get back to work [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: How are doing supporting yourself now?
PATIENT: Uh actually right now it's kind of hard.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: Yeah, no I'm trying to just pick up [REDACTED] house and uh I'd say I'm just trying to make it the best that I can.  So we're just blessed trying to [REDACTED] cutting out a lot of the things that I used to do helps, though so.  Either than that I just pray and try to stay on an even keel.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: Yeah and definitely [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: So everything's working out.  [REDACTED] so I just go across over there?
DOCTOR: Yeah to the front desk where you checked in so.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Then across the hallway to the left.
PATIENT: Okay and I'll just hear from you in a couple of days.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Thank you.
DOCTOR: You take care now.
PATIENT: 29:27
DD: @@/@@/@@
DT: @@/@@/@@
INFOPRO/800511/JOB#  1286096
TRANSACTION # 578-10-2-316-0103