DOCTOR: PATIENT?
PATIENT: Here you be.
DOCTOR: Come on back.
PATIENT: [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: I'm DOCTOR.  I don't know if you remember me.  We had met last time in uh see December.
PATIENT: December [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Uh December the 4th.  Yeah on December the 31st you saw a different doctor uh in the Urgent Care Clinic.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: And I understand you had some burning or you had some discharge?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Have you got any more of that?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: No, it's all gone.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: And they gave you those antibiotics right that shot and the okay.  Have any discharge since then?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Are you using protection when you.
PATIENT: I haven't had any.
DOCTOR: Haven't had it.
PATIENT: (Laughter).
DOCTOR: Just remember to use protection to be safe.  All the tests came back negative. I don’t know if DOCTOR called you and told you, the HIV, syphilis and uh gonorrhea and Chlamydia all came back negative okay.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: So that's all good news.
PATIENT: I wasn't aware about [REDACTED] like that but I was just concerned about the fact I'm [REDACTED] heavy feeling.
DOCTOR: Right and no more of that burning?  Any burning when you urinate or anything?
PATIENT: No it wasn't burning, no it hadn't been burning.
DOCTOR: You don't burn.
PATIENT: [REDACTED] just I wasn't sure what it was.
DOCTOR: What it was huh.
PATIENT: And make sure [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: It's always good to check things out.  Better to be safe than sorry and find out later and things get worse so.  That's good you came in and I'm glad everything is better now and feeling better and just that there are no more issues.  Good thing is that the tests all came back negative as well.  Are you still, are you still taking that terazosin, the medicine you take for the prostate?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Are you still having to get up at night or have you gotten any better?
PATIENT: Yeah uh-huh.  Sometimes like the night before last I was okay.  The night before that I only had every thirty minutes for just two hours or three hours.
DOCTOR: For two or three hours.
PATIENT: Yeah.  That's been uh I took a gallon jug, one of those water jubs is what it is and overnight I urinated about five or six times and I put a half a gallon in that and I urinated a half a gallon.  Then last night I didn't urinate but about maybe a quart.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But I think it could have been higher cause sometimes I drink more in the evenings than I do a lot of the day.  Maybe that could have been it too.
DOCTOR: So you drinking more in the evenings?
PATIENT: Sometimes, you know it all depends on my tastes.
DOCTOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Whatever goes.
DOCTOR: Try as much as you can to limit your drinking at night so that you're not having to go to the bath.  That'll help things at night cause you are gonna have to know you have to get up once or twice and I advise drinking at night or close to around the time that you're gonna go to sleep is gonna make things worse in terms of you having to get up more frequently basically.
PATIENT: I don't urinate much in the daytime but.
DOCTOR: You don't urinate as much in the daytime.
PATIENT: I haven't and I don't know if it's because I'm moving around or but it seems like urinate less in the daytime.  Now if I drink, I don't drink anything but lemonade you know and like just plain water to mix it in with.  I just recently started using that crystal stuff, Crystal Light stuff.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Because it's sugar free stuff.
DOCTOR: Sugar free stuff okay.
PATIENT: And then I make that use that now.  I used to drink gin when I was drinking and so I cut back 60 to 50 so I stopped drinking then I just continued the lemonade and that's all I drink.  I don't drink clear water.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: It was, I haven't drink clear water for 35-40 years.
DOCTOR: Okay, well its okay as long as you remember that sugar is gonna be bad for your diabetes.  So keep, you know use substitute stuff if you can instead of the real sugars cause that's gonna be bad for your diabetes.  Just remember just to limit your lemonade drinking uh at night.  Like you know two, three hours, you should just try to make two to three hours before you're gonna go to bed.  Let's say you go to bed at 10 o'clock you know, just say at 8 o'clock you cut off any drinking you unless you're really thirsty, take a little half glass something.  Like you know try to limit so that you're not having that problem that much at night.  That'll help things with the problem at night okay along with the terazosin just continue taking the terazosin.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: How about your other medicines?  You having any problems with any other medicines?  No.  You been taking them fine or problems taking them at all?
PATIENT: Yeah I'm only on the one drop now on the my eye medicine.
DOCTOR: Eye medicine.
PATIENT: It's just my blood pressure pills [REDACTED] I been sort of been taking.  I wasn't taking any blood pressure medicine in a month.
DOCTOR: You haven't taken any blood pressure medicine for a month why?
PATIENT: Because of my blood pressure it hasn't been up and I was taking it and I was taking you know where I got the monitor and if it went down to a certain amount don't take the blood pressure medicine and I haven't, when I started I was taking it it was down, it would be down low or something like that I didn't take the blood pressure medicine and my blood pressure machine hasn't been working for the last two weeks like it's really not bad or something [REDACTED].  But I still have to wait and see.  My blood pressure is still okay now so.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I have never had blood pressure problems until this year and when I started having a problem with the stent and everything.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: That's when the blood pressure began to I guess, I think that's when it started going up I'm not sure.  Now it's down.
DOCTOR: Yeah you may never have had super high blood pressure but now with the stent in your heart, which means that you've had some heart disease, we tend to want to control your blood pressure better because if your blood pressure's even a little bit above where we want it at or above where our goal is, it can put pressure, strain on your heart and you know your heart's already had strain with the stent and things like that so the idea to prevent you from having any heart attack in the future with controlling your blood pressure will prevent that you know.  So what is your blood, you said you're checking your blood pressure at home, do you check it every day or do you check it?
PATIENT: I haven't checked it [REDACTED] weeks.
DOCTOR: Last few weeks but before that were you checking it every day?
PATIENT: Yes.
DOCTOR: And so every day what would your pressure be?  What was the top number reading and what was the bottom number reading?
PATIENT: Sometimes it was, shoot, I should have, I didn't bring the thing that I wrote down.  Kind of hard to say because sometimes it'd be 99.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Over 70 or something like that.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Sometimes it might be the highest reading maybe was I think 110.
DOCTOR: For the top number the highest it ever was 110?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: The numbers okay and the bottom one numbers 70?
PATIENT: Yeah in there, sometimes maybe 80.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Um so 110/80 was probably the highest you ever noticed it?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: And you check it on your arm?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: And does it fit proper, as far as the sizing and things?  Did they size it for you when you first got it?  You got the blood pressure machine from here or someplace else?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I guess the size they gave me was a medium.
DOCTOR: A medium cuff okay.  Uh okay.  Cause your blood pressures here they got 135/74 so the bottom number is pretty consistent with what you get at home.  The top number is 135, from what you're telling me it's probably higher than it's ever been when you've checked it at home.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: When they checked it.
PATIENT: Yeah they say it was 70, at the time at home it might range sometimes 10-15 degrees uh.
DOCTOR: Different than here.
PATIENT: Different.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And so it will be, even if it was 110, it's gonna be in the 125 [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: So like for you, to have the blood pressure goal for you, given that your heart history and given your fact that you have diabetes which is a risk factor for having heart attacks.
PATIENT: That's another thing that I know it is.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know.
DOCTOR: Yeah the diabetes.  But sometimes, sometimes these things like high blood pressure or diabetes sometimes we don't know we have it because we don't notice.  We don't have symptoms maybe.  We don't have, we just walk around with it, you don't know.  You may not feel different with your blood pressure lower or higher or your sugar higher or lower but cause sometimes it's only found later when they do testing labs, that thing or it's picked up on a lab or something like that.
PATIENT: Well do they find sugar who did the blood tests before, the last time?
DOCTOR: Yeah like uh they had in the past I believe but let's see when the last one they checked here.  You're not taking any medication for your.
PATIENT: For sugar.
DOCTOR: For sugar are you?
PATIENT: I just been on it for about a month.
DOCTOR: Oh the metformin yeah.  Well your sugar was slightly high, it was 7 is one of the numbers we look at but it looks like the most recent we checked it was better, 6.4 which means that your blood sugar is fairly well controlled um.  That was in December when we checked it, 6.4.  So if you have diabetes it's uh likely that your diabetes is uh pretty fairly mild or fairly well controlled.
PATIENT: Hmm.
DOCTOR: Just going on this one medicine, it's like fairly well controlled.  Do you check your sugar at home?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: You don't check it.  Do you have a meter?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: They never gave you one?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Okay we can give you one and teach you how to use it.
PATIENT: I know how to use, like if you give me the new one they was talking about.  They got one that you just put it on and.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It don't, you don't even have to prick the finger and stuff like that.
DOCTOR: Uh I don't know if they have that one, that type here.  Yeah the one that I think they use is where you prick your finger, it's like a standard one.  There is one that you prick like I think maybe in the arm something or the wrist.  You still have to get blood though so there's still pricking involved but they say.
PATIENT: Maybe so.
DOCTOR: So I don't think, I'm not sure if they have that kind here, I think it's more like a standard one.  But what I could do is if you just checked your sugar uh you know maybe once a day or once every other day or three times a week even and log your sugars in the mornings when you wake up, log your sugars or if you, if you're gonna do it in the evening do it two hours after you've eaten your meal.  Check your sugar, write them down, bring that log to me and we'll see your sugars and say well you're being so well controlled we may just take you off the medicine and see how you're controlled with just diet and exercise.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: You know um and we can check you not with our numbers, your diabetes numbers is the A1c number and that A1c number every diabetes person we aim to get that at 6 and the A1c is just an indication of how good your sugars have been over a period of about three months.  Your last one when we checked in December is 6.4 which is like really good.  That's close to 6.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: And you're pretty, that indicates that your diabetes is really well controlled, just on that metformin.  So you know sometimes we say that people have diet-controlled diabetes which means they may have uh a touch of high of what we you know may be high sugar as you hear it and they just control it with good diet and nutrition as well as some exercise.  So it's just important because with the heart history that you have with the stent, it's important that we make sure that your diabetes is well controlled and it does look like it is because that can be a risk factor for having a heart attack in the future.  Okay.  But your diabetes looks good so we'll set you up with a meter so you can just check some sugars so we can have a log to see if we maybe can have you off the medicine.
PATIENT: Okay.  I have to pick it up here?
DOCTOR: Yes.  The blood pressure, let's check what it was, the blood pressure I want to make sure.  We could do two things, one is I'd like to either and you tell me what you want to do, we can either have you, I'd like to either have you started back on the medicine, at least one of the blood pressure medicines.  If you don't want to take both of them, you take one and come back in two weeks and recheck your blood pressure and see how it is and see the results.  Or that's what I ideally like to do or we could just say you can come back in two weeks not taking any of your blood pressure medicines, just continue checking your blood pressure at home and get you maybe a new battery here and bring a log of your blood pressures and come back in two weeks, take your blood pressure again here in the clinic, see what it is.  If it's still high then we'll go back on the blood pressure medicines.  But I'd like to, either way I want you to come back in two weeks and have your blood pressure rechecked.
PATIENT: Okay I think I could do it.  Which one do you want?  The one I was told to take, I had a pill in the morning and I had a pill at night.
DOCTOR: Maybe let's just probably keep you on the lisinopril at least.
PATIENT: Lisinopril.
DOCTOR: Yeah so the one that you take half a tablet, you broke it in half.
PATIENT: And that one I was only taking it once.
DOCTOR: Once a day.
PATIENT: Uh-huh that was in the daytime.
DOCTOR: Yeah.  So uh let's just restart that.  You haven't been taking that or the metoprolol right?
PATIENT: Metoprolol no I only taking one.
DOCTOR: Okay let's just start with the lisinopril.  The lisinopril is actually good because it protects your kidneys for people who have diabetes so that's a good medicine plus a blood pressure medicine and you're on a really low dose, 10 mg uh.  I think I'd like to take one to just we can see you next week and then you can come back in two weeks and see what your blood pressure is.  If your top number, your goal for your top number is less than 130.  The goal for your bottom number is less than 80.  So your bottom number you're at goal, you're less than 80.  The top number today you're almost at goal.  If you were 130 or less you'd be at goal but you're 135 so you're slightly high.  So that's, your blood pressure is fairly well controlled.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: Having taken no medicines for about a month.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: So maybe you don't need to be on the metoprolol and you may not even need to be you know on that high dose of the lisinopril.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: But we'll keep the lisinopril on and you know.
PATIENT: And then come back in two weeks.
DOCTOR: Yes sir.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: How have you been feeling otherwise?  Any other problems, chest pain, shortness of breath?  No chest pain, no shortness of breath.  Any trouble walking?  Do you get short of breath, chest pain when you walk?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Or you exert yourself no.  Any nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, nothing like that?
PATIENT: No I take stool softeners so that takes care of that.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I.
DOCTOR: Now the other thing that's very important, are you taking your aspirin and your Plavix?
PATIENT: Yes.
DOCTOR: Every day, you don't miss doses?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: That's important cause that stent they put can get clogged up if you don't take your aspirin and your Plavix.
PATIENT: I take that.
DOCTOR: So make sure you take that okay.
PATIENT: I don't take, I don't [REDACTED].  I need to go pee.  I think I got another appointment on the 26th in Cardiology.
DOCTOR: Cardiology yeah.
PATIENT: Cardiology so that'll be for my shoulders.  I'm slowly falling apart.
DOCTOR: Now how would you feel about and a lot of these medicines have been shown after someone's had a heart attack we put you on these medicines, the lisinopril and the metoprolol because they also protect people from having another heart attack.  So you may never have a very high blood pressure ever but the fact that these protect you from having another heart attack is part of the reason why we put you on it.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: So we may consider just putting you maybe back on the lisinopril and the metoprolol but just at a very low dose so that you get the protection uh from having another heart attack but you know your blood pressure, since your blood pressure is not very high um you know you may not need that right now [REDACTED] so that may be an option that I will come back and talk to you about.  I'm just gonna run things by my boss but, but in either case we probably want you back to check your blood pressure.  And you can bring your machine in as well next time you come in, bring your machine and we can put batteries in it and uh I'll fix it up if we need to and uh we can also check your blood pressure with your machine in the clinic and see and compare and kind of put it together at the same time.  Deep breath in and out.  Deep breath, deep breath, deep breath.  And uh do you smoke at all?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: No more smoking okay good.  And you're not drinking anymore?
PATIENT: Beg your pardon.
DOCTOR: You're not drinking anymore you said you stopped it.
PATIENT: No, no, no.  I haven't been drinking and I [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: When [REDACTED] and I'm keeping my legs elevated like in the evening occasionally so.  Sometimes they get swollen, sometimes they don't.
DOCTOR: How's the shoulder?  Shoulder doing okay?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Same, same old, not better or different?
PATIENT: It's better than it was when I first hurt got it done, the first two shots.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But it still hurts.  Sometimes when I [REDACTED] then I get something when I raise up to use it, and relieve pain and when I [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Then I get a snap [REDACTED] and it used to [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: [REDACTED].
PATIENT: And it pops.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Sometimes it pops loud.  I think probably you could hear it, I think it is popping now.
DOCTOR: And you've had MRIs of your shoulder before?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Of your [REDACTED].
PATIENT: The MRI and the whatcha call that other thing?  When you go inside the tube?
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah I had that.
DOCTOR: CAT scan, MRI.  Are you still following with the rheumatologist?  The guy that gave you the injections?
PATIENT: I think next time is the 26th.
DOCTOR: Yeah.  I'll be right back okay.
PATIENT: Okay thank you.
(DOCTOR OUT:  24:09  DOCTOR IN:  31:15)
DOCTOR: Alright.
PATIENT: You didn't have to hurry back.
DOCTOR: Huh?
PATIENT: You didn't hurry.
DOCTOR: Uh alright so we're gonna have you come back in two weeks.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Uh.  When you come back, take your lisinopril, take it the same way, the half pill every day.  Take it the morning of too, so the morning you're coming back for this.
PATIENT: Well I have to take it at night or do you want me to take it in the morning?
DOCTOR: Oh cause you're taking it.
PATIENT: You want me to take it in the morning again?
DOCTOR: Well you can take it at night, that's fine.  If that's the way you've been doing it, just take it at night. Just remember to take it the night before then.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Alright and um we're gonna give you a monitor today okay.
PATIENT: Alright.
DOCTOR: You said you know how to use it?
PATIENT: Yep.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I used to take care of my aunt.
DOCTOR: Oh okay.
PATIENT: I used to check it every day several times a day.  She had it real bad so I used to give her two sliding pills at one time and insulin.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I used to give her.
DOCTOR: Shots and stuff?
PATIENT: Yeah a shot that sit underneath the skin.
DOCTOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: She didn't like that too much.  She been dead two years now.  I took care of her about eight years.
DOCTOR: I’m sorry to  hear that. Um I've ordered the strips uh, the whole deal okay.  So you can pick that up today.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: Uh and what we want to do, again, the plan is to.
PATIENT: Can you get the batteries for my blood pressure machine?
DOCTOR: I think what you have to do; do you know where you get the blood pressure machine on the second floor of Prosthetics?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: I would go back to them and say I need batteries for this.  I think you're the ones where I get it.
PATIENT: I can buy the batteries though too.
DOCTOR: I don't think uh, I can't order batteries.
PATIENT: Okay well then I can get them.
DOCTOR: But they may have it.
PATIENT: I can go get some from Walgreens.
DOCTOR: Alright so I'm ordering you that thing.  Now what you do just like two or three times a week, out of the week you know, just two or three days out of the whole week check your sugar, record it on a piece of paper okay.  Ideally you want to be fasting so you're gonna take it, when you wake up in the morning check it.  Or if you eat check it two hours after you eat or something.
PATIENT: Right.
DOCTOR: But if you eat like a piece of candy and then check your sugar it's gonna be high.  You got to make sure that we want to get accurate fasting sugars.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: So when you wake up in the morning, ideally you could just check your sugars, two or three times.
PATIENT: Before I eat, before I take my medicine.
DOCTOR: You could do that yeah.
PATIENT: Because I take the medicine at night.
DOCTOR: Right okay, that's perfect.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: And then so check it two or three times a week, log it and then bring that paper in.
PATIENT: Right.
DOCTOR: If your sugars are great we're just gonna take you off the metformin.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Sounds like a good idea?
PATIENT: Sounds like a plan.
DOCTOR: Alright, we'll see you back in two weeks to see what you're uh see what your blood pressure is okay.  Oh and there's one other thing I want to check some blood work.  Your blood count has been going down a little bit.  Slowly, it hasn't been a big drop okay.
PATIENT: What do you mean going down?
DOCTOR: Your hemoglobin, which is your blood in your body.
PATIENT: Hmm.
DOCTOR: Blood count, it's trended down a little bit okay.  And that could be because you don't have enough iron in your body maybe.  It could be for a lot of different reasons okay.  So I just wanted to check it and make sure it's stable.  Since you're on the aspirin or Plavix that can cause bleeding a little bit sometimes too.  Have you noticed any black or bloody stools or anything like that?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: So we're just gonna check your blood count and uh I just wanted to check your blood count and make sure it's okay.  You won't have to get it today.  You can get it when you come back to see your rheumatologist on the 26th.  You could do it then or you could do it today if you want.
PATIENT: I was gonna ask you, I got a [REDACTED] something here, I just thought about it when you said something about my blood count.  [REDACTED] I got a bruise and I don’t even know where it come from.
DOCTOR: Yeah it's probably the aspirin can cause a little bleeding sometimes cause your blood might be a little what we call thin.
PATIENT: Yeah on it [REDACTED] so.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And that's the only thing, about two or three days ago, maybe four days ago now, I say man what happened here, I didn't remember, seemed like something, somebody, this thing here you know I might have hit my hand here.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.  Is that [REDACTED]?
DOCTOR: No looks pretty good, not bad, looks like it's just there and that can happen with being on the aspirin and the Plavix.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
DOCTOR: That can happen; you can have some minor bleeding.
PATIENT: Oh.
DOCTOR: But as long as it's not huge uh you should be okay.
PATIENT: [REDACTED] doesn’t hurt.
DOCTOR: It should be okay but I want to just check your blood count to make sure everything is alright.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: We can keep an eye on it and its fine.
PATIENT: This morning I took my medicines.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: That [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Yeah and you don't have to be fasting for this.
PATIENT: Oh okay.
DOCTOR: Okay.  [REDACTED] check your iron levels.
PATIENT: We'll get the blood in the bank.
DOCTOR: Yeah and then you get your monitor today, make sure you give that to the clerk okay.
PATIENT: Right.  Uh I was thinking about giving some blood for the uh, Katrina, oh not Katrina.
DOCTOR: Haiti?
PATIENT: Haiti.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It won't bother like me being on the Plavix and stuff?
DOCTOR: Uh no, no, you should be okay.  I want to check your um, now I want to make sure your blood counts are okay before you start giving blood um because if the blood counts are low I don't want you giving blood because your blood counts are low.  So you know, it's not horribly low.  Um you used to be like in the 13 to 14 range your hemoglobin, your blood count.
PATIENT: Hmm.
DOCTOR: And you're like at, the last time we checked it in November, it was 12.7, so it's slightly less, so slightly kind of getting lower.
PATIENT: And I had it just in December, they took two tubes there.
DOCTOR: But they may have not ordered this specific test.
PATIENT: Oh oh.
DOCTOR: So we'll check this today and make sure.  If its, I'll give you a call if its stable you can, I see no problems giving blood.  Even if you're on aspirin or Plavix you can give blood, that's not a problem.
PATIENT: Okay.  Yeah I was wondering about that because I used to be a donor.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: [REDACTED] I am a [REDACTED] donor.
DOCTOR: Is your number still NUMBER? I’ll give you a call.
PATIENT: Yeah.  Alright thank you.
DOCTOR: Alright yep.
PATIENT: And when you find that out, come find me, [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Sometime next weej.
DOCTOR: Right.
PATIENT: So I know if I can give blood.  That's what I did when I don't have the money; I give some of this weak blood.  I got the kind of blood that they say can save.  One pint of my blood can save twelve people.
DOCTOR: Yeah I mean it must be one of those universal blood donor blood types.
PATIENT: It's an 0, negative or positive.  Probably 0 negative I would say.
DOCTOR: Alright well you take care.  We'll probably see you in a couple of months then.
PATIENT: Does it show the type?  I think it was 0 negative when I was asked but I'm not sure, that's why I ask.  When I was 18 years old, the first time I ever donated blood was to one of my aunts.
DOCTOR: Oh really.
PATIENT: When I found out that I had [REDACTED].  She had a rare type blood [REDACTED].  AB blood.  But good luck doc.
DOCTOR: When you come back in, just give that paper to the clerk and you can pick up your monitor.  Alright take care.
PATIENT: 40:01
DD: @@/@@/@@
DT: @@/@@/@@
INFOPRO/800511/JOB#  1255175
TRANSACTION # 578-10-2-316-0103