DOCTOR: PATIENT.
PATIENT: Yeah.  How you doing?
DOCTOR: How's everything going?
PATIENT: Oh not too bad.
DOCTOR: Oh not too bad okay.  So you know I was reading up on some of your follow-up appointments um, I think I saw you in May and you saw Neurology um after that.  They seemed to be okay with the medications you were on for seizures.  Have you had any seizure issues or no?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Good.  When was the last time?
PATIENT: I'm not sure.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Probably November.
DOCTOR: Uh when you were incarcerated it was happening there pretty frequently though right?
PATIENT: Right.
DOCTOR: Um would you say a couple of months, six months?
PATIENT: Maybe like four months.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Just to get an idea.  Okay um and then the other thing was um you know I think we went up on some of your medications.  Did you start taking the higher dose of insulin?  Yeah okay and then the higher dose of blood pressure medication too?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Now I'm currently almost out of some medications.
DOCTOR: Through?  Okay try to refill it.
PATIENT: Even though I was gonna talk to the.
DOCTOR: Pharmacist?
PATIENT: When I seen the pharmacist, there’s some that she didn't send it out.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Do you remember what it was specifically?
PATIENT: She sent me the syringes for...
DOCTOR: The insulin?
PATIENT: No, no [REDACTED].  The one that I have to take every month?
DOCTOR: Uh the B12.
PATIENT: Right.  She didn't send the B12.
DOCTOR: Okay.  It might be um.
PATIENT: And she didn't.
DOCTOR: Yeah, yeah. I see that.
PATIENT: And she didn't send me the [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Okay.  Are you out of those?
PATIENT: Yes.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: [REDACTED] all the medications.  That's the [REDACTED] one and uh.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Well let's go ahead and refill that.  B12 looked okay.  Uh so you know sometimes we stop the B12 so I think that for the next whole month you know your last level was in May and before then you had been on the low side so we're pretty good so we can talk about refilling that.  I'll need to talk to the attending about that okay.  But definitely the lamotrigine.  And any other ones that you need?
PATIENT: Yeah mostly all of them.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Cause I've been.
DOCTOR: You’ve been [REDACTED] couple months.
PATIENT: And I was out of Tylenol also.
DOCTOR: Yeah um okay.  In terms of and do you get it mailed to you or um?  Yeah cause you have refills on all these guys.  So what you do is you can call it in.
PATIENT: Well I didn't want to call it in cause I wasn't there.
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Sometimes they just leave it on the porch.
DOCTOR: I see what you're saying okay, okay.  So you know if you're not home if you just want to pick it up in the future okay.
PATIENT: No I can pick it up today.
DOCTOR: Yeah no everything is pretty much good to go.  I'll make sure that um if we need to do B12 we will but yeah I mean lamotrigine um there for you to pick up.  I guess they mailed it on June 1st, I don’t know if you got that um.  But when you go there you can talk about yeah hey I would like all my medications to be um for me to pick up okay.
PATIENT: So it's just for today.  I'll be.
DOCTOR: In the future do you want them mailed to you?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Yeah they can mail them.
PATIENT: Now the insulin I had like one and a half full.
DOCTOR: Okay.  So you should probably, so you have refills on the, we'll make sure you've got whatever is necessary for another month's supply okay.  There's 1 1/2 of those uh [REDACTED] right?  How much you know, how many injections can you get off of that?
PATIENT: Uh I'm not sure but it's almost a month, maybe a little more than that.
DOCTOR: Okay one vial okay alright.  We'll make sure that you have enough to last.  What have your blood sugars been running since you went up on the insulin?
PATIENT: Well it's okay but then I've also been eating.  I don't know what's getting me so hungry but.
DOCTOR: Yeah.  What's the, what is the blood sugar like?
PATIENT: It's 150-160.  And I get up during the night and I'm just so hungry I just have something to eat.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Do you think it's because of the insulin?  You didn't notice this yeah.  I'm pretty sure it's not the insulin okay.  Does your blood sugar ever drop really low like 40s, 30s, anything like that?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Okay.  And you know for the first time, you know when you wake up what are your blood sugars then?
PATIENT: It's rather high because I woke up during the night and I've eaten.
DOCTOR: Yeah if you've eaten yeah sure.
PATIENT: I don't know is there something I can do to maybe when that happens I can get?
DOCTOR: Yeah we can.
PATIENT: Like a snack or something I can have uh.
DOCTOR: Um during the night you mean?  We can to sort of talk about that I mean you know I don't know if it's related to your insulin and then if that's the case you know whether there needs to be a modification um and it's always at night or just during the day you're hungry too?
PATIENT: Well it's during the day also.
DOCTOR: And always or you know just sort of randomly goes, it'll come?
PATIENT: Hmm it's sort of random but then it's also, I've been noticing my weight.
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I've been gaining weight.
DOCTOR: [REDACTED] .  Yeah I mean at one point you were down to 182 last year.  For the most part 190s.  You're a little higher than you were the past couple visits but its stable you know.  It looks like your baseline has been 190 plus or minus you know 5 but um then again how many months has it been like this?
PATIENT: About three.
DOCTOR: Three months okay.
PATIENT: But I am getting a [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: You feel like you're gaining a little weight okay.  No weight loss or anything like that okay.  Um so we'll talk about what we can do with that.  Any other issues bothering you?
PATIENT: Uh uh.
DOCTOR: Uh so the one thing, I think I tried to call um your home to do one of the last test I worked on, the hepatitis panel and I think it was done by the pharmacist but what came positive, which was hepatitis C but not like active infection.  Meaning that you may have had it in the past okay.  Um the.
PATIENT: How far back can it go?
DOCTOR: It can be whenever.  All we know is that you have an antibody against it and there's no vaccine so that means you know sometimes, you know the vaccine that can cause your antibody to be positive meaning that you were exposed to it.  Um but this is unclear.  We did another test to see if there's any active hepatitis.  That was negative okay.  Um so it's something for us to monitor you know uh at this point we put a consult in to the liver doctors and they didn't act like anything needed to be done you know but let me talk to the attending doctor too about any concerns you know that we have.  Now in the past have you had any tattoos you know you have this one um any other tattoos or anything like that?
PATIENT: No.  This I did when I was 14.
DOCTOR: Was it with a needle though or?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: I mean so.
PATIENT: But that was quite a while ago.
DOCTOR: Yeah but I mean hepatitis um again it can be an exposure and then you're done with it you know.  I'm not saying it's that necessarily.  Um you know blood transfusion, unsafe sex, IV drug use, any of those things could be a potential source okay.  But in any case you don't have anything active right now okay.  It's just something to be aware of.  At one point you were exposed to it okay.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Do you have any questions or concerns about that?  And your liver function test was okay.  I don't think there are any issues that we're worried about you know causing disease right now.  Yeah any [REDACTED] everything so.  And I'll talk to the attending about it too and see if we need to do anything else but really you know it was one test was positive and so that reflects maybe an infection in the past okay.  Alright if you have a seat I'll just take a quick look at you, can you have a seat?  Now you weren't taking the insulin in the prison right?
PATIENT: Huh?
DOCTOR: When you were incarcerated were you taking the insulin then or were they not giving it to you?
PATIENT: They were just giving the metformin.
DOCTOR: Metformin.
PATIENT: And then the glyburide.
DOCTOR: Yeah how high were your sugars going then?  Do you know?
PATIENT: No they were really low.
DOCTOR: They were low, even though you were on, you didn't have the insulin it was still low?  Hmm interesting.  You're still taking the 5 units?
PATIENT: That was, the thing was that they didn't give me very much to eat.
DOCTOR: Yeah, almost like a [REDACTED] yeah.
PATIENT: And dinner would be like at 5:30 and the blood test would be like 5:30 in the morning.
DOCTOR: Oh so that's all, okay.  Okay alright.  Either way you know I think the dosage of insulin that we have you on are reasonable, you know if you have episodes of dizziness or lightheadedness just go back to your old doses okay.  I think it was 15 and 10.  Correct me if I’m wrong.
PATIENT: No, that’s right.
DOCTOR: Uh let me take a listen to you okay.  Deep breath and out, again and out, again and out, deep breath.  I'll listen to your chest.  Any vision changes, vision blurriness or anything like that?  Okay.  And when was the last time you saw the eye doctor?
PATIENT: Uh not too long ago.  It was the end of June.
DOCTOR: End of June okay.  Was it here?
PATIENT: No I got Pearle Vision I get it.
DOCTOR: Okay you got just a for.
PATIENT: No I got a new pair of glasses.
DOCTOR: Okay.  We would probably also, when was the last time that you saw an ophthalmology doctor?  Did you ever see uh you know an exam they'd be looking at the back of your eye?
PATIENT: I don't know if I have one coming up or I missed it.
DOCTOR: Let me double check on that one and then foot doctor do you normally see him?
PATIENT: Uh yes.
DOCTOR: Okay.  Any numbness, tingling or anything like that?
PATIENT: No.  Should I take off my shoes?
DOCTOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Okay.  They gave me some stuff for the, my toenail pain uh.
DOCTOR: The discoloration?  Is that helping at all?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: I think you saw Dermatology right for the infection there?
PATIENT: [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Okay.
PATIENT: It was this toe that has it.
DOCTOR: So it was this toe.  Do you feel like your toes are getting blacker or about the same?
PATIENT: They're about the same.
DOCTOR: Are you feeling that? Same all over the place?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Okay how about there, here, here, here, no?  Okay good, okay good.  Here let me take a look.  Let me see what the plan was for that specifically.  Okay so you have a Podiatry appointment on the 13th okay.  So in terms of you know anti-fungals or anything they can talk about it there too so that's in three days um and then if you need to reschedule you can always schedule with the clerk.  Uh we'll talk about it in a second.  Let me see if you're due for anything.  Okay.  Um so one other thing just vaccination-wise.  One of the vaccines that you could use um I think your tetanus was up-to-date but there's one called TDAP and it's a tetanus so it makes you up-to-date for that for ten years and then whooping cough.  Since whooping cough affects you know people as they get older.  It used to be just kids but once your immunity wears off, it does you know when you get older as well.  So you get it once and then you're pretty much good for life.  It's something that we can give and you know record it in the VA System so we know that you have it.  Um is that something you want to get from this visit?
PATIENT: [REDACTED].
DOCTOR: Okay.  Okay sounds good.  Okay I'll come back.
DOCTOR: 39:39  DOCTOR IN:  53:35
DOCTOR: Sorry for the wait.  So we talked about a couple of things.  Uh one thing I just want to uh make sure was in terms of the insulin when you take it, the bedtime one or the nighttime um are you taking it before dinner or after dinner?
PATIENT: Uh before dinner.
DOCTOR: Okay so before dinner um and never at nighttime right?  As far as taking it for you know back ending it closer to when you sleep will cause your blood sugars to sort of elevate up you know right after and then kick back up so you know it could be part of the reason why you're having elevated sugars in the morning.  Um with the increased hunger I don't have a great explanation for it to be honest.  Um insulin itself shouldn't cause it and neither should any of the medications that you're really on.  Um what'd I say is you know it's better to be on the safe side than not the safe side so you know I don't want your sugar to be 40-50.  You know if you start feeling hungry just eat and then we'll try to sort of you know maintain a baseline insulin.  What you can do though is instead of eating carbohydrates like a bagel, rice so anything like that when it happens you know try to go you know with protein or fiber um so add proteins bars, Ensure, things like that okay.  Um and that just sort of you know can cause you to have your hunger decrease and improve um but then also um you know not elevate your blood sugar as much as well.  Does that make sense?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: So we will sort of use that strategy um but the thing is did they put you on vitamin D at all?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: They did.  Do you know what the dose was?
PATIENT: I'm not sure that's every week.
DOCTOR: Yeah but, okay so you do have that, okay great.  I'll find the dose so we'll continue that as is okay.  I'm sure I can find it here.  Um we're just going to do your blood sugar log and blood pressure log um just given your recent pressures would be.  Do you have a blood pressure monitor at home?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Okay I'm gonna uh put in an order in it for Prosthetics okay and you can pick it up there.
PATIENT: Today or?
DOCTOR: Um it should be available today.  So you should be able to check on it.  You know you can go to the Pharmacy for the refills okay.  And again everything should already be in there.  If you're having any troubles check and make sure you don't and you know you can tell them this time I want to pick it up but in the future you know I would like to get it mailed to me.  You know however you want it okay.  Um I just want you to come to the nurse in maybe 3-4 weeks just to check how your blood pressure is doing on the current medications okay and then we'll also schedule you with me and you know we'll say 4-6 months and then earlier if you're having issues okay.  And really I think that's about it.  Um I don't need to get any labs so uh you can get the vaccine first and you don't even need to checkout.  You can just get the vaccine, get the blood pressure machine at Prosthetics.  Do you know where that is?
PATIENT: Uh uh.
DOCTOR: We'll see about directions for you.  Oh here's the sheet for refills information okay.
PATIENT: Alright.
DOCTOR: You need to order it ahead of time.  The sheet gives you what you need.  Um what I would say for the blood pressure machine, just ask the clerk after you get the vaccine um where Prosthetics is. And you and you can either pick that up or pick your medications up first rather than vice versa.  Okay.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Just cause they might close by 5 so I'd want you to get your medications and you know you can pull the number, try to go to Prosthetics and then come back to get your medications okay.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Alright.  Um let me put the order in for the vaccine and you should be good to go.
PATIENT: Now where do I get that at?
DOCTOR: Um I'll show you.  Okay when you're out there I just want you to make an eye exam as well okay.  Basically I would go to the clerk um after you get the vaccine and just schedule an eye appointment okay and then they can give you an updated list of what you need in terms of appointments you know, Podiatry again coming in three days.  Sound good?
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: Okay.  So I'll see you in 4-5 months and sooner if you need to okay.
DD: @@/@@/@@
DT: @@/@@/@@
INFOPRO/800511/JOB#  38309
TRANSACTION # 578-10-2-316-0103