DOCTOR: I understand that you've had a cough, can you tell me a little bit more about that?
PATIENT: Yeah, so I've had this cough now, it's been going on for about two weeks, just, just hasn't gone away.
DOCTOR: Uhm, oK, can you tell me a little bit more about this cough? Is it dry or wet?
PATIENT: Uh, yeah it's been, uhm, mix, it's been dry sometimes and I have had a little bit of sputum production recently, uh, it's been mostly clear though.
DOCTOR: Has the cough gotten worse over the past two weeks?
PATIENT: No, it's been about the same.
DOCTOR: Uhm, and have you had any blood that came up with the sputum?
PATIENT: No, I haven't noticed any blood.
DOCTOR: Alright, what about any other symptoms over the past two weeks? Have you had, have you had any fevers or chills?
PATIENT: Not, no.
DOCTOR: No. OK. And any uhm, I guess, any runny nose?
PATIENT: Yeah, my nose was a bit runny last week, but it's, that's better now.
DOCTOR: OK. OK, uhm, it's just, OK last week, what else, what other symptoms did you have last week?
PATIENT: Yeah, I had a sore throat and a little bit of a headache as well, uhm, and, and some aches and fatigue. Those were uh, yeah, that was last week for about three days, and then I started to feel better. But I still have this cough, that, it's still going on.
DOCTOR: So those other symptoms that you had last week that lasted about three days, are they all gone? are you still feeling fatigued or having a headache?
PATIENT: Those are both, yeah, they're gone.
DOCTOR: Hmm, It's only the cough?
PATIENT: Yeah I just have the cough.
DOCTOR: Is there any time, any specific time of the day that it's worse or better? Anything that triggers it?
PATIENT: Uhm, maybe like, maybe when I went out into the cold or, uhm, like, when I went for a run where I really kind of exerted myself, it brought it on, but other than those things, nothing.
DOCTOR: OK, but you're otherwise feeling better?
PATIENT: Yeah, for the most part, yeah, feeling better, but I still have a cough.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, have you had any chest pain?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Any palpitations? Do you feel like your heart's racing?
PATIENT: Uhm, no. Nothing like that.
DOCTOR: Any other symptoms such as belly pain or diarrhea or Constipation or changes in your urine, are having any urinary symptoms?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had anything like, like that.
DOCTOR: OK. OK, and can you tell me about your past medical history, any medical conditions you have?
PATIENT: Yeah, I, I'm healthy. I haven't, been diagnosed with, with anything.
DOCTOR: OK alright, any medications that you take including over the counter pills or any herbal pills or multi vitamins etc.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm taking a birth control.
DOCTOR: I see. OK, any allergies?
PATIENT: No allergies.
DOCTOR: OK. Do you have any, you don't have any lungs related diseases right? Like asthma or COPD or anything of that sort?
PATIENT: Uhm, no, nothing like that.
DOCTOR: Alright alright, that's good,  and who do you currently live with, and where do you live?
PATIENT: Alright, so I live with a few roommates. I'm just finishing up my undergraduate degree.
DOCTOR: Yeah, that's great. Have you had any contact with anyone who was sick recently?
PATIENT: No, not that I could think of, I mean we went out one night last week and that's kind of when I had those other symptoms for a few days after that.
DOCTOR: OK, OK. Uhm and have you traveled outside the city or country?
PATIENT: No, I haven't.
DOCTOR: No, ok. Do you drink alcohol?
PATIENT: Sometimes yeah, I, I will with friends, kind of socially.
DOCTOR: alright.
PATIENT: Just a few drinks.
DOCTOR: What about smoking?
PATIENT: Uh, no.
DOCTOR: Marijuana?
PATIENT: Uh, sometimes with, like socially with friends, but that might be once a month or probably even less.
DOCTOR: Any recreational drugs?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, alright and any lung conditions that run in the family?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm, OK alright, so that's all that I, I wanted to know. It sounds like you had a, you had a cold last week and you just have this residual cough that's still there, and it's been two weeks and you're just worried about it, but otherwise you're feeling well, you don't have any other symptoms. Often times when we get sick, or we have an infection or inflammation of the, uhm, the airway, we can get a cough that lasts a long time and it might just take you a couple more weeks for the cough to go away. But if you feel that it's getting any worse or you're, you have those symptoms come back again, or you develop a fever, we can, you can definitely, we can do something more about that. I'll also do a physical exam and, and see how you're doing and then we can go from there.
PATIENT: OK, great, thank you.