DOCTOR: What brings you in today?
PATIENT: Yeah, I've had a sore throat that's been really bugging me the past four days and I've had a cough as well.
DOCTOR: Mhmm. Uhm, when did the cough start?
PATIENT: Yeah, so the the the cough started last week actually, and then and then I I got this sore throat afterwards.
DOCTOR: Mhmm. OK, and is it a dry cough or wet cough?
PATIENT: It's dry.
DOCTOR: OK. And has it gotten better or worse or stayed the same since last week?
PATIENT: Uh, it's it's gotten a little bit, little bit better.
DOCTOR: OK, that's good. And the sore throat started four days ago, are you having any difficulties swallowing at all?
PATIENT: Yeah, it's, it's, it's really sore.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, and I guess going back to the cough, does it make it difficult for you to fall asleep at night or does it wake you up in the middle of the night?
PATIENT: No I, it hasn't done that.
DOCTOR: OK, alright. Other uh, and and I guess this sore throat has just gotten worse over the past four days or has been kind of the same or better?
PATIENT: Yeah, it's gotten a little, it's gotten a little bit worse over the last few days.
DOCTOR: OK, do you have any other symptoms like headaches, stuffy nose, runny nose, uhm any discharge from your eyes, red eyes, any pain in your ears? Anything like that?
PATIENT: Yeah, but that you mention that yeah, I I have had like some itchy eyes, that and a runny nose. I was sneezing quite a bit last week, but that has kind of ah, gone away now.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm and were sneezing last week, and you had itchy eyes, had and thats gone. OK so all you have right now is that cough and sore throat, uhm, OK.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I've been really like achy and and tired as well.
DOCTOR: Have you had any fevers or chills?
PATIENT: Yeah, I've, I've felt feverish these last two days. No chills.
DOCTOR: Uhm, and have you had any changes in your sense of smell?
PATIENT: No, I haven't.
DOCTOR: Changes in your sense of taste?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, alright, and any chest pain?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had any chest pain.
DOCTOR: Difficulties breathing?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Any, uhm, I guess headache or any pressure in your cheeks or your head when you bend down or squat down?
PATIENT: No, I haven't felt anything like that.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, any belly pain, nausea or vomiting, any changes in your bowel movements or any urinary symptoms?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK. Alright. And do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
PATIENT: I've had uhm, like tonsillitis a few times in the, in the past. The last time happened about about six months ago, I'm wondering if I have strep throat.
DOCTOR: How often do you get that tonsillitis?
PATIENT: Uh, so I've had it four times. Yeah, 4 four times in the last few years.
DOCTOR: Uhm, do you still have your tonsils or have you?
PATIENT: I do, yeah I do, yes, yeah.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm and any other medical conditions?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, any surgeries?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Have you ever been hospitalized?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK. And any when you were younger would you have a lot of infections uhm, when you were a child or when you were born? Were you born prematurely? Were there any complications at birth?
PATIENT: Uh, I did have a couple of ear infections when I was, when I was younger, but I haven't had any since.
DOCTOR: OK. And no pneumonia or anything like that, right?
PATIENT: No, nothing like that.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, any history of asthma or eczema or allergic rhinitis?
PATIENT: No, I haven't heard of those before.
DOCTOR: Alright. Are you taking any medications?
PATIENT: No, I'm not.
DOCTOR: Were you given any antibiotics six months ago when you had your tonsillitis?
PATIENT: I was yeah, I think I, I think a like amoxicillin.
DOCTOR: Right and uh, do you have allergies to food or environmental allergies or allergies to any medications?
PATIENT: Yeah I, I have allergies to peanuts.
DOCTOR: What happens?
PATIENT: Yeah, I do get anaphylaxis from it. I've uhm, or I'll get yeah like hives and throat swelling. And so I do carry an EpiPen, I haven't had to use it though.
DOCTOR: Yeah, that's good, that's good. And so couple questions about, uhm, I guess more general questions, do you, who do you live with and where do you live, in a house or an apartment?
PATIENT: Live in a house with uhm, with my parents and older sister.
DOCTOR: OK, and uhm, are you, uhm, are you currently smoking or have you ever smoked in the past?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK. Also I just want to remind you that these questions will remain confidential between you and me. In case you're worried, no one's going to find out about what we're talking about unless you, unless there's concern about harm to you or harm to anyone else. Do you feel safe at home?
PATIENT: I do, yes.
DOCTOR: OK, are things going well at school? Any bullying? Are you happy with your grades?
PATIENT: Yeah there everything I, I mean school is school, but it's been good.
DOCTOR: OK, and you said you don't smoke. Have you tried any other any recreational drugs? Any marijuana?
PATIENT: No, I haven't.
DOCTOR: OK, any alcohol?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK. And are you so sexually active?
PATIENT: No, I'm not.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, alright, have you had contact with anyone who might be sick?
PATIENT: I don't think so. I mean, going to, we both I mean, we've been going back to school recently, but nobody's been off.
DOCTOR: OK. So you've been doing schooling in person, then, OK.
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Alright. Any medical conditions that run in your family, anything related to the lungs, or otherwise?
PATIENT: Uh, no.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm, alright, well those are all the questions I had for you. So it sounds like last week you had itchy eyes runny nose, you were sneezing and you had a dry cough. And then over time some of those symptoms resolved and you continued to have a cough that was also getting better, but you then developed a sore throat. And you have been feeling feverish over the past two days. Did you measure, did you check your temperature last week?
PATIENT: I didn't check it last week, but I checked it yesterday and it was 38.2, I think.
DOCTOR: OK.
PATIENT: But yeah, but but those are the symptoms that that I've been having.
DOCTOR: Uhm, so it sounds like you your symptoms have evolved quite a bit over the past two weeks. It could have, it could be potentially that you had a viral infection initially and might you might have like a superimposed bacterial infection, but we don't know that for sure. Uhm, we, we'll do a physical exam. Have a listen to your chest, have a look inside your mouth, look at your throat. Uhm, we, uhm, I guess the original symptoms you had last week., uhm, were seem a little bit different. It could be pharyngitis, maybe what you have right now could potentially be pharyngitis with a sore throat and the fever that you've developed over the past three or four days. So, I'll definitely have a look inside your throat as well, and if necessary we could do a rapid strep test. Uhm, and we would also have to do a Covid test just in case, and I would recommend that you quarantine at home. The results should come out in the next 12 to 20 for 24 to 48 hours. Just self isolate, stay away from other family members and then you'll find out the results. If it's positive, someone will call you from public health and then let you know what to do.
PATIENT: OK, yeah, that sounds good.
DOCTOR: Alright.
PATIENT: Thank you.
DOCTOR: Yeah, you're welcome.