DOCTOR: So what brings you here today?
PATIENT: Yeah I have my 2 year old daughter here with me. I don't know what's happening with her, but she seems to be getting really sick. So I'll give you that kind of timeline. So two days ago she was feeling hot and her fever hasn't broken. We've been giving her Tylenol, but she still seems to have a fever. The last time I checked her temperature was 38.5 and she seems to have issues swallowing food. She's drooling and she seems short of breath.
DOCTOR: OK, and when did she start getting short of breath?
PATIENT: That started yesterday.
DOCTOR: Has her fever been getting worse or has it stayed around the same?
PATIENT: So I just checked the first day. It was like 38, 38.5.
DOCTOR: OK, and when did the trouble swallowing start?
PATIENT: That started yesterday as well.
DOCTOR: OK, and has it been getting worse at all?
PATIENT: I think so. Now she's barely even drinking fluids.
DOCTOR: OK, so it's both solids and fluids. OK, have you noticed any swelling in her neck area or redness or swelling in her throat?
PATIENT: Yeah, I've noticed some of that.
DOCTOR: OK, you see a lot of redness in there?
PATIENT: I see, yeah, I see quite a bit of redness in there.
DOCTOR: And has she been drooling at all?
PATIENT: Yeah, a little bit today.
DOCTOR: OK. Alright, any coughing?
PATIENT: Not hat I noticed.
DOCTOR: No coughing. OK, and do you notice that she's increasingly fatigued, or just not herself? Or is she irritable?
PATIENT: Yeah, she's very irritable.
DOCTOR: OK, do you notice any kind of paleness or blueness in her skin? Anything like that?
PATIENT: She's not blue. She's looking a little pale though.
DOCTOR: OK, and sorry, when did the shortness of breath start? Is it getting worse at all?
PATIENT: Shortness of breath started yesterday as well, moreso today which is why I brought her in.
DOCTOR: OK, any other symptoms like nausea or vomiting or diarrhea or constipation?
PATIENT: Um, no nothing like that.
DOCTOR: OK, and how's her appetite and sleep?
PATIENT: It's been, it's been not great. She's not eating well, I guess because she's in a lo of pain and she didn't sleep well for the past two nights either.
DOCTOR: OK uhm, has she had any recent infections at all, like a cold or anything like that?
PATIENT: She did have a cough 2 weeks ago, yeah.
DOCTOR: OK, and did it just go away on it's own or did she need any antibiotics or any other medications?
PATIENT: I think no, she didn't need any antibiotics. It kind of went away on its own.
DOCTOR: OK, any sick contacts within the last week or two weeks?
PATIENT: I mean, she goes to daycare so she might have picked something up from there. Yeah, last I checked, no one at daycare was sick like right now. But three weeks ago there was someone who was sick.
DOCTOR: OK, any past medical history?
PATIENT: Um, no, she's been pretty healthy otherwis.
DOCTOR: Any issues during pregnancy or after birth at all?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Are her immunizations are up to date?
PATIENT: Um, yes, she didn't get the H. flu vaccine though.
DOCTOR: OK, OK, any hospitalizations or anything like that in the past?
PATIENT: Um, no.
DOCTOR: OK, and any family history of any medical conditions?
PATIENT: Um, no.
DOCTOR: And currently, who does she live with at home?
PATIENT: I'm she lives with myself as well as her older brother.
DOCTOR: OK, alright, so yeah those are all the questions that I have.
PATIENT: Do you think this is like an urgent matter?
DOCTOR: Because she has not been vaccinated with the H.flu vaccine and some of the symptoms that she's displaying like the drooling and trouble swallowing and now especially the shortness of breath are very concerning, I really think we should go to the Emergency Department. I'll give them a call to le them know that you're coming. Yeah, and what they will most likely do there is get a test done to see if she has H. flu and also they might do perhaps like a COVID swab as well. They might get an X Ray of her neck as well to see it. So what I think might be going on is with H. flu you can get swelling of your epiglottis and it can kind of obstruct your throat. It's very urgent matter, so that's why we will make sure you get to the ER and, uh, you know, we'll go from there. Does that sound? I know it may be very worrying right now. Do you have any questions at all?
PATIENT: Yeah, do you know how long will she have to be in the hospital?
DOCTOR: So right now we just need to make sure that she's stable, like all her vitals. You know when she gets to the ER, they can give her the appropriate antibiotics as well. And based on that, we need to make sure her breathing get stabilized, so she might be in the ER for one day. If they think she needs to be on IV antibiotics in the hospital, she might be in the hospital for a few more days or even a week. So it's really hard to say right now, but our priority right now is to make sure she's stabilized in the ER.
PATIENT: OK. OK yeah, that sounds good.
DOCTOR: So I'll give them a call right now, and, uh, you can head over to the ER. Or if you need a ride, we can arrange to do that for you too.
PATIENT: OK, great, that sounds great.
DOCTOR: Thank you.
PATIENT: You too.