DOCTOR: Can you tell me what brings you in here today?
PATIENT: So I've had this, uh, this cough that it started two days ago and it's been getting worse. I've been bringing up this rust colored sputum.
DOCTOR: OK, and so that's been going on for a few days?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah about two days.
DOCTOR: OK, and how often are you coughing?
PATIENT: It's it's happening all day. Really, throughout the day and really any type of exertion or or movement, I'm getting short of breath and it's triggering a cough.
DOCTOR: OK, and the shortness of breath, is it just with the exertion or it can, is it happening at rest? How are you feeling right now?
PATIENT: Yeah, even right now it feels like I'm not able to get, I don't know, a full breath, it just feels like it's more difficult to to breathe.
DOCTOR: OK, have you felt any kind of dizziness or fainting episodes?
PATIENT: No, I haven't.
DOCTOR: OK. Have you been feeling any chest pain at all?
PATIENT: Uh, no, I, I I haven't had any chest pain.
DOCTOR: OK, and so with your coughing you're producing the rust colored sputum, but how much would you say you're producing?
PATIENT: Uh I would say, yeah, maybe three or four teaspoons every every couple hours.
DOCTOR: OK, are you producing any blood like in your cough or sputum at all?
PATIENT: No, it wasn't really red, it's kinda orange.
DOCTOR: Orange, OK. Any greenish or yellow material?
PATIENT: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
DOCTOR: OK. Any fevers or chills?
PATIENT: Yeah, I have had, I've had both of those. I've had a I I checked my temperature this morning and it was 38.2 and I was pretty chilly last night.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, and before these symptoms started, were you having any similar symptoms at all before?
PATIENT: Ah, no, I mean a few weeks ago, probably like a yeah a couple of weeks ago I had a runny nose. And and sore throat for a couple of days. It went away on its own though.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, any anything that makes your symptoms better or worse that you've tried?
PATIENT: I did try some over the counter cold medicine. It, I think it might have helped me sleep last night, but didn't really do a whole lot.
DOCTOR: OK, does your shortness of breath improve with any positions or does it improve when you're not exerting yourself?
PATIENT: Uh, not really. It's kind of always there,
DOCTOR: It's ok. Do you have to wake up at night to take a deep breath? Or do you feel any kind of shortness of breath with laying down at all?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had any issues like that.
DOCTOR: OK and do you notice any kind of swelling in your feet, ankles, arms, legs, anything like that?
PATIENT: No, I haven't.
DOCTOR: OK, have you been in contact with anyone that's sick recently?
PATIENT: Uh, I don't I, I mean I see my granddaughter and I might have got a cold from her a few weeks ago, but recently I haven't seen anybody.
DOCTOR: OK, are you having any night sweats?
PATIENT: No, just a chills last night.
DOCTOR: OK. Are you breathing faster?
PATIENT: Yeah, I have felt like I've been been breathing a bit faster.
DOCTOR: You have any muscle aches or anything like that?
PATIENT: Ah no, not really.
DOCTOR: OK, and give any other symptoms like chest pain, runny nose, sore throat, anything like that?
PATIENT: Uh, no. Just been really tired these last couple of days and I've just felt like sleeping all day. Haven't felt like eating either, my appetite has been really poor.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm. And other than that, have you experienced any kind of headaches, nausea or vomiting?
PATIENT: No, I haven't.
DOCTOR: OK, any fevers or, you said you have had some chills, right?
PATIENT: I have yeah.
DOCTOR: OK. And then a fever too. Kind of a sensation of your heart racing at all?
PATIENT: Ah, yeah, right. It doesn't feel like it's well, it does feel like it's beating a bit faster than usual, just not feeling too well.
DOCTOR: Yeah, so yeah, we'll do a physical examination and get all your vital signs as well right after. Any, so you said you haven't been able to eat, ave you noticed any significant weight changes recently?
PATIENT: No, my weight's been about the same.
DOCTOR: OK, any exposure to any dusts or animals, fumes, anything that might have triggered some of these symptoms?
PATIENT: No, I don't think so. My husband and I, we moved into a new kind of apartment here and it, it's brand new.
DOCTOR: OK, any kind of loss of sense of taste or smell?
PATIENT: No, that's been normal.
DOCTOR: OK, any exposure or any travel outside of the country at all.
PATIENT: No, nothing like that.
DOCTOR: OK, so just mainly the coughing with the rusty material as well as just the shortness of breath. Umm, and do you get any pain at all in your chest when you breathe in or out?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had any, had anything like that.
DOCTOR: OK, any past medical conditions that I should know of?
PATIENT: Yeah, I, umm, I had a stroke like that like six years ago. And I have type 2 diabetes. As well as GERD.
DOCTOR: OK, and uh, yeah, I'm sorry you had you had a stroke six years ago or how are you after that? Were there any kind of, like did, after rehabilitation, do you have any symptoms still going on at all?
PATIENT: Yeah my, my left hand, still, still it gives me some some problems. I get uh, uh, Botulinum toxin injections for, for the tightness in my hand.
DOCTOR: OK, OK, and are you taking any other medications at all?
PATIENT: Yeah, I use metformin. Empagliflozin or an SGLT2, insulin and uh, and aspirin, I think.
DOCTOR: OK, and any over the counter medications?
PATIENT: Yeah, I take a multivitamin and in vitamin D.
DOCTOR: OK. Any allergies to any medications at all?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, any environmental allergies?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, any ill contacts at all?
PATIENT: No, no.
DOCTOR: Any recent or prior hospitalizations?
PATIENT: No, the last time I was in the hospital was I was for rehab after my stroke.
DOCTOR: OK and so, but after that, no other hospitalizations or surgeries?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, any surgeries in the past?
PATIENT: Yeah, well I did have a C-section for my son but that was many years ago now and everything for that was, was OK. Yeah.
DOCTOR: OK. Any family history of any lung or heart conditions? Any cancers?
PATIENT: Uhm, yeah, my dad had had a heart attack actually, but he was in his 80s when that, when that happened.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm and currently right now, are you working at all?
PATIENT: No, I'm retired. I used to be a teacher for Grade 3, uhm, but yeah, but since retired and my husband and I just moved into a smaller apartment to make it a bit easier on us. It was a lot trying to look after the house.
DOCTOR: OK, well congratulations on your new home. Are you at all, you or your husband requiring any kind of supports outside of the home at all?
PATIENT: No, between us two we managed to get the shopping done, the cooking and and all the cleaning, and that sort of thing. I use a walker to get around when we're going longer distances.
DOCTOR: OK. And currently right now, do you smoke at all?
PATIENT: Uh, yes I, I spoke about half a pack per day or maybe even less.
DOCTOR: OK, and how, how long have you have smoked for?
PATIENT: Since I was 15 maybe?
DOCTOR: OK.
PATIENT: So yeah for like 45 years.
DOCTOR: And have you, at all been diagnosed with COPD or anything like that?
PATIENT: No, I was tested actually, uh, a couple of years ago and that the results were normal.
DOCTOR: OK. Alright, and have you thought of quitting at all? I know you've been smoking like for a very long time, but have you at all tried to quit before?
PATIENT: Like I've considered it, but I I just don't think it, it'll be possible at this time.
DOCTOR: OK, well if you at all are wanting any information or want to talk about quitting at all, um, we can provide more resources. Do you besides smoking, do you use any recreational drugs like marijuana?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: No. Any alcohol at all?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK. Yeah, so those are some of the questions I had a, I will be doing a physical examination with your shortness of breath. I just want to get a good listen to your lungs and take all your vitals as well. However, yeah so after that since you're having some symptoms of what might be a pneumonia, it can be a bacterial infection, a viral infection, we will have to get some blood work done as well as a chest x-ray. And right now, with the pandemic going on, we will also do Covid swab test for you as well, just in case. Does that sound good?
PATIENT: Yeah, that makes sense, thank you.
DOCTOR: Alright and, if if you're while you're here, if your shortness of breath gets any worse at all, just let us know and we'll help you out.
PATIENT: OK, thank you, will do.
DOCTOR: Thank you, bye.
PATIENT: Bye.