DOCTOR: Would you mind by starting with what brought you in?
PATIENT: Yeah, so over the last week I've just been feeling some symptoms. It kind of first started with, like a runny nose. That was around like 5 days ago and then it turned into just a lot of congestion, like around my nose and like my throat. And now over the last two days I've been just feeling so much pressure around my nose and around my jaw so I've been getting a lot of pain there as well.
DOCTOR: OK, is your nose still running?
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm still getting some discharge and I also feel like I'm getting some dripping at the back of my throat too, especially when I wake up.
DOCTOR: OK, and could you describe the discharge? Is it clear, yellow, greenish?
PATIENT: Uh, it's fairly clear and sometimes, like a bit white, but like, it's not like green or yellow.
DOCTOR: OK, uh, and have you felt that it's difficult to breathe in through either of your nostrils, like it's obstructed?
PATIENT: Yeah, so at night sometimes I have to like turn because one side of my nose gets difficult to breathe from and then it kind of balances out on the other side. So yeah, I do have some obstruction.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you had any changes to your sense of smell?
PATIENT: Yeah, so just in the last three days when the congestion got really bad I started losing the ability to smell.
DOCTOR: OK, have you had any changes to your sense of taste?
PATIENT: No, taste is fine.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you had any cough or sore throat?
PATIENT: Uh, no. No cough or sore throat.
DOCTOR: OK, and the symptoms have gone on for five days. Have you had a period of time where you got better and then got sick again?
PATIENT: I did kind of have a runny nose last week as well, so probably like 8 days ago but then the runny nose discontinued a little bit but really got worse 5 days ago, but all these other symptoms just happened in the last few days.
DOCTOR: OK, and you have pain. Do you feel it in your jaw or do you feel it in the in the front of your nose?
PATIENT: Yes, I would say mainly over the cheeks. It can kind of go near the front of my teeth as well, so like I would say like mostly around the cheeks, jaws and up to the front of my teeth.
DOCTOR: OK, And do you grind your teeth at all at night? or have you had, TMJ issues before?
PATIENT: No nothing like that. I think it's not so much on and around my teeth, it's more so just to right below my nose, above my teeth and just around my cheeks.
DOCTOR: OK, so no pain in your mouth or anything like that?
PATIENT: No, not inside my mouth.
DOCTOR: OK, have you had any fevers or chills?
PATIENT: Uhm, I Don't think I've had a fever. I did feel some chills over the last few days, but just very brief episodes.
DOCTOR: OK, and over the last few weeks have you had any weight loss?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, and you said you didn't have a cough or a sore throat, but have you had any wheezing?
PATIENT: No wheezing.
DOCTOR: How about any shortness of breath?
PATIENT: Uh, not shortness of breath. Just sometimes when my nose gets like really congested, I just turn into like a mouth breather, but that's about it.
DOCTOR: I see, OK, and have you had any chest pain?
PATIENT: No, no chest pain.
DOCTOR: Alright, and any lightheadedness or feeling dizzy?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, have you had any nausea or vomiting?
PATIENT: Nope.
DOCTOR: Any abdominal pain?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Have you had any diarrhea?
PATIENT: Sorry, what was that?
DOCTOR: Have you had any diarrhea?
PATIENT: No diarrhea.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you had any urinary problems?
PATIENT: Uh, no.
DOCTOR: And have you had any rashes or skin changes?
PATIENT: No, not that I know.
DOCTOR: OK, then how about any muscle aches or joint aches?
PATIENT: Uh, no.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you had any muscle weakness?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: And how has your energy been? Any fatigue?
PATIENT: Uhm, it's been mainly OK, just maybe sometimes difficult to get to sleep with all the all the congestion, but I don't think my energy has been affected too much, no.
DOCTOR: OK, and, uh, sorry to go back to this, I don't think I asked. Did you notice any discharge from your eyes or any eye redness?
PATIENT: Not discharge, but yeah, maybe a little bit of redness.
DOCTOR: OK, have your eyes been itchy?
PATIENT: Uhm Yeah, a little bit. I would say they have been a bit itchy.
DOCTOR: OK, alright then, do you have any medical conditions that you see a physician for regularly?
PATIENT: Uh, just uhm, its called dyslipidemia.
DOCTOR: OK, I see, and any medications you take for that?
PATIENT: Just like a Statin medication.
DOCTOR: OK, do you take any other medications? over the counter? prescribed?
PATIENT: No, other than that I take multivitamins.
DOCTOR: OK, and do you have any allergies to medications or like environmental allergies that might be getting worse?
PATIENT: Uh, no, not that I know.
DOCTOR: OK, so you don't experience any symptoms like this when the seasons change?
PATIENT: I don't think so. I have had this happen to me, Uh, I would say like once before. It happened like two years ago. It was pretty similar.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm, and what was done at that time?
PATIENT: At that time it kind of just went away on it's own. It got better. I feel it's definitely worse this time. But at that time I didn't even go to the doctor, it kind of just went away.
DOCTOR: OK, I see. Any recent hospitalizations?
PATIENT: No hospitalizations.
DOCTOR: Any surgeries?
PATIENT: Nope.
DOCTOR: Alright, and could you tell me where abouts you're living currently and who you're living with?
PATIENT: Yeah, so I'm currently living in an apartment by myself, just outside of London.
DOCTOR: OK, and anybody that you've been around who's had any symptoms?
PATIENT: Uh, no, not that I know of.
DOCTOR: OK, so no sick Contacts. And have you traveled anywhere out of the city or province?
PATIENT: No, I've tried to stay home, besides going to work. I just work at the grocery store. Besides that, no, nowhere else.
DOCTOR: OK, and any of your coworkers have any symptoms? Or any coworkers being off sick?
PATIENT: No, we're pretty careful right now with the pandemic.
DOCTOR: I see, yeah, that's great. OK, and do you smoke cigarettes?
PATIENT: No, I quit just a couple of years ago.
DOCTOR: Oh, that's great. It's not easy to quit, so that's awesome. And do you drink alcohol?
PATIENT: Just maybe like red wine a couple of times a week.
DOCTOR: I see, OK, and do you use any recreational drugs?
PATIENT: Uh, just, in a month, maybe once or twice, I smoke a joint.
DOCTOR: OK, uh, and anybody in the family have any lung or heart conditions?
PATIENT: No, not that I know of.
DOCTOR: Alright, and how about any cancer in the family?
PATIENT: Uh, no, no cancers.
DOCTOR: OK, I think I that was everything I wanted to ask about today. Was there any other symptoms or anything else that you wanted to make sure I knew about today?
PATIENT: No,  I think that's all. I just didn't know if I needed any, like, medications or if I needed to get tested. I just wanted to make sure.
DOCTOR: Yeah, so well, certainly check your temperature to see if you have a fever. And if you do and it's high enough, that will increase the chance that you have a bacterial sinusitis,  and if so, with some of your symptoms, including the discharge, obstruction, loss of smell, and facial pain, that all fits the picture for it and also you had a period where you felt a little bit better and then worse again. So that might require antibiotics, but we will check your temperature and go from there.
PATIENT: Alright, sounds good, thank you so much.
DOCTOR: Thank you.