DOCTOR: So what brings you here today?
PATIENT: Yeah, so I've had this cough, ongoing now for the last three days and I found I've had a more difficult time breathing as well.
DOCTOR: OK, and So what came first? did the cough come first?
PATIENT: Yeah, the cough started first.
DOCTOR: OK and so it started three days ago?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: When did the shortness of breath start?
PATIENT: That started probably about two days ago.
DOCTOR: OK, and the cough, can you describe it a little bit? Is it like a wet cough, a dry cough? How would you describe it?
PATIENT: Yeah, I brought up a little bit of sputum. It's been clear, mostly clear and sometimes dry as well. The cough's been getting worse over the last couple of days as well and hasn't really stopped either, it's just kind of ongoing all day.
DOCTOR: OK, so it's it's pretty constant?
PATIENT: Yeah, it's been constant.
DOCTOR: OK, and how much sputum would you say you're bringing up?
PATIENT: I would say, uh, maybe like two teaspoons a day. It's only like a little bit in the tissues and I'm not bringing up sputum every time.
DOCTOR: OK, and is your sputum at all yellow, green? Or does it have any blood tinge content in it?
PATIENT: No, I haven't noticed anything like that.
DOCTOR: OK, so it's mainly just white or clear.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's mostly, yeah, like whiteish or clear.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm, and have you had anything like this happen before?
PATIENT: No, I haven't.
DOCTOR: OK, and how would you describe the shortness of breath? Are you having trouble taking deep breaths or are you having trouble breathing when exerting yourself, like how would you describe it?
PATIENT: Yeah, I have like, a chest tightness. I find when I exert myself it gets worse and after I cough, I have a little bit of trouble catching my breath as well.
DOCTOR: OK, When do you have the chest tightness, when did that start?
PATIENT: Uh, yeah, that's started within the last two days as well, with the cough.
DOCTOR: OK, so is it just the tightness when you cough or is it there just throughout?
PATIENT: Yeah if I take like a deep breath in, like, it just feels tight, like I can't get a deep breath.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you had any kind of, like swelling in your calves, or pain in your calves at all?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had anything like that.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you had any surgeries recently or have you been immobilized for a long time or admitted to a hospital or anything like that?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had anything like that, I've been healthy.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you had anything like a blood clot, either in your legs or traveling up to your lungs in the past before?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had anything like that.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you been diagnosed with cancer or any other medical conditions?
PATIENT: No, I haven't.
DOCTOR: OK uhm, so would you say the coughing and the shortness of breath is getting worse, or it's about the same?
PATIENT: I'd say it's gotten a little bit worse over these last couple of days.
DOCTOR: OK, and is there anything that makes your symptoms better or worse?
PATIENT: Yeah, if I exert myself it does make it a bit worse. It'll bring on the cough more, and shortness of breath.
DOCTOR: OK, and how about any positional changes? Like, does lying down help? Does resting help relieve some of that tightness, cough and shortness of breath?
PATIENT: No, nothing like that has helped.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you tried any kind of medications at all, over the counter?
PATIENT: No, I haven't tried anything.
DOCTOR: OK. Alright, so it seems that your shortness of breath, is it, uh, mainly when you're breathing in or breathing out? Or are you having shallow breaths? How would you describe it?
PATIENT: I would say it, yeah, I kind of go back to the chest tightness, it just feels like I'm not able to, like, breath in all the way and catch my breath after I exert myself or coughing. It's easy Uh, like if I rest I'm not short of breath.
DOCTOR: OK, do you have any other symptoms? like a runny nose, sore throat? Anything like that?
PATIENT: Uhm, nothing like that.
DOCTOR: OK, and any headaches?
PATIENT: I have had a little bit of a headache over the last day. Usually I get headaches like this when I haven't slept well.
DOCTOR: OK, and is it like a different type of headache and is it on one side of your head or both?
PATIENT: Yeah, I feel it on both, kinda like right up into my forehead there.
DOCTOR: OK, and is it kind of like a pressure like pain? Is it pulsating pain? How would you describe it?
PATIENT: I would say it's more of a pressure, yeah.
DOCTOR: OK, uh, have you tried any medications for it?
PATIENT: Uhm, Yeah, I took an Advil this morning. It's taken the edge off a little bit. I will use that sometimes when I get headaches.
DOCTOR: Are you having any nausea or vomiting?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had anything like that.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you traveled outside of the country or outside of the province at all?
PATIENT: No, I haven't.
DOCTOR: Have you been in contact with anyone that's been sick recently?
PATIENT: I don't think so. I work at the Toyota factory and there have been a few people that have been sick who worked there? But I don't think I've been in contact with them.
DOCTOR: OK, and are you having any fevers or chills at all?
PATIENT: I have felt pretty hot, yeah, I was sweaty last night, I didn't check a temperature, but I felt feverish.
DOCTOR: OK, were you having night sweats?
PATIENT: My bed wasn't drenched or anything but I was sweating.
DOCTOR: OK are you feeling like you have lost any sense of taste or smell at all?
PATIENT: Uhm, Yeah, I haven't been able to smell very well.
DOCTOR: OK, and when did that start?
PATIENT: That may be within the last two days as well.
DOCTOR: OK, and are you congested at all? Like, do you have a runny nose or anything like that?
PATIENT: No, I don't have anything like that.
DOCTOR: OK, yeah, any changes in your bowel movements, like any Constipation or diarrhea?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had anything like that.
DOCTOR: OK, any muscle aches?
PATIENT: Yeah, I have felt a bit sore.
DOCTOR: Where would you say you feel sore?
PATIENT: Just kind of all over, my whole body just kind of feels a bit achy.
DOCTOR: OK, and when did this start?
PATIENT: Yeah, probably like last night, this morning when I was laying down and just felt a bit tired and achy?
DOCTOR: OK. Has your sleep or appetite changed at all?
PATIENT: I didn't sleep very good last night. I just don't feel very rested this morning. And yeah, I haven't felt very hungry either.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm, alright, do you have any medical conditions that you take any medications for?
PATIENT: No, I don't take any medications.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you had any surgeries or have been hospitalized before?
PATIENT: I did have tubes in my ears when I was little, but that's it though.
DOCTOR: OK. Any family history of any heart or lung conditions?
PATIENT: Yeah, my dad had a triple bypass surgery done last last year. He was sixty-three at the time and that's about it.
DOCTOR: OK, and you don't have any high blood pressure or anything like that, right?
PATIENT: No, not that I know of.
DOCTOR: OK, and do you have any allergies?
PATIENT: Uhm, just environmental stuff I think, just, like in the springtime, I'll get itchy eyes or a runny nose.
DOCTOR: OK, and currently do you work?
PATIENT: I do, yeah I work at a car factory nearby, just on the assembly line.
DOCTOR: And have you been off of work right now, with your symptoms? How is that going?
PATIENT: Oh yeah, just like these last two days I called in and I let them know and I left work early yesterday when I realized that I was feeling sick and didn't go in this morning.
DOCTOR: OK, uh, and what's your living situation like?
PATIENT: So I live with my girlfriend, and we have a son who's four years old.
DOCTOR: OK, and any one of them having any similar symptoms?
PATIENT: No, they've been good. My wife works from home and my son, he's been his playful self.
DOCTOR: OK, that's good. OK, last few questions. Do you smoke at all?
PATIENT: No, I don't.
DOCTOR: Do you use any recreational drugs like marijuana?
PATIENT: Uh, no, I don't.
DOCTOR: OK, and do you drink alcohol?
PATIENT: I'll have some wine with dinner, maybe two or three nights a week.
DOCTOR: OK. Yeah, those are all the questions I had today and it seems that definitely there are some concerning symptoms like the shortness of breath and the cough especially also the loss of smell that you're having. We definitely want to make sure that you don't have coronavirus, so we will do a test for you today. And what we recommend in the meantime is to self isolate, even in your home, wear a mask around your family, if you can, like, eat separately, don't go outside and be off of work until the test results come back and then even after that, you might need to follow instructions of public health and self isolate for 14 days. If not coronavirus, hopefully, then it can also be other things, like, other viruses can cause similar symptoms as well, but yeah. So, we'll just get that test done and then see where to go from there.
PATIENT: OK, that sounds great. Thank you.
DOCTOR: You welcome. Take care, bye.