DOCTOR: Umm, how may I help you?
PATIENT: So yeah I've been having for the last two days, uh, it just started randomly. I had to miss work, Just a headache started at the beginning and then I noticed the same day, so this was two days ago. A headache started and my body just started aching throughout the day and yesterday I just developed, I think it was a fever, I didn't really get a chance to check, like, but I was very chilly yesterday and now I have this cough as well.
DOCTOR: OK, so just to confirm, so the, the symptoms at first started with a headache and, and fatigue, and that started two days ago?
PATIENT: Yeah, like with fatigue, like also just the, my muscles were aching.
DOCTOR: OK, and any particular muscles that were achy or is this more of a, uhm, general kind of whole body feeling?
PATIENT: Just a general whole body feeling.
DOCTOR: OK. Uh, and in terms of the headache, could you describe, uhm, could you describe the headache?
PATIENT: Yes, it's just kind of like at the front like near my forehead, on, on kind of like both sides more. It just feels like, like pressure in there.
DOCTOR: OK, have you had headaches like this before?
PATIENT: Uh, no, not really.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, is the headache on one side or, or the other or on both sides?
PATIENT: I think it's like both sides.
DOCTOR: And is the headache like pulsating or is it more, continuous kind of constant pain?
PATIENT: I think it's more continuous constant.
DOCTOR: Alright, and have you had any sensitivity to light or sound that, that's made the headache a lot worse?
PATIENT: No, it's, it's kind of just there, it's about the same as when it was when it started.
DOCTOR: OK, have you had any nausea and vomiting associated with that, the headache or anything else?
PATIENT: Uh, no.
DOCTOR: OK. And so, and then, last question for the headache piece. Does it feel like it was a like kind of sudden onset, worst headache of your life sensation?
PATIENT: Uh, no, it's still like, like I can still cope with it, like, if I wanted to I would have gone into work. But it was the muscle aches that really started bothering me.
DOCTOR: OK. And so you had a cough as well, when did this start, and is it a dry or wet cough?
PATIENT: It's a dry cough and it started yesterday, probably in the morning when I woke up.
DOCTOR: OK, and has the cough been getting any better or worse?
PATIENT: Uhm, since yesterday I would sayit's probably a bit worse now.
DOCTOR: Alright, and it's dry, but have you seen any blood that's come up?
PATIENT: No, no, no blood.
DOCTOR: And have you had any shortness of breath?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK. And have you had any flu like symptoms or infectious symptoms like a red eyes, runny eyes, runny nose, or a sore throat?
PATIENT: No, I don't have any of those symptoms.
DOCTOR: OK, you mentioned you felt feverish. Do you feel hot now?
PATIENT: Not right now, but I did have, last night just, was just very chilly and Uh, I had to just wrap myself up in a couple blankets.
DOCTOR: OK. Did you have any night sweats?
PATIENT: No, I, I didn't have any night sweats.
DOCTOR: Alright, and have you had any chest pain?
PATIENT: No, no chest pain.
DOCTOR: Alright, so how about any dizziness or lightheadedness?
PATIENT: Nope.
DOCTOR: OK. And have you had any wheeze?
PATIENT: No wheezing.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, and have you noticed any swelling to any of your extremities? Like your ankles?
PATIENT: Uh, no. Nope.
DOCTOR: OK. And have you had any belly pain?
PATIENT: No belly pain.
DOCTOR: Any urinary problems like pain or, or frequency going to the bathroom?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: And any diarrhea?
PATIENT: No diarrhea.
DOCTOR: Alright, and have you noticed any rashes or, or changes to your skin?
PATIENT: No, not at all.
DOCTOR: Alright, and I don't know, you've had muscle aches, have you had any joint pains?
PATIENT: Uh, no, no musc, sorry no joint pain. It's mainly just like in, I would say in around my upper back like my upper arms and kind of like my thighs and glutes areas
DOCTOR: OK. And how has your energy been these last couple of days?
PATIENT: Yesterday I felt a bit drained. I just kind of like stayed in bed the whole day.
DOCTOR: OK, and have you tried any medications for the, for the headache or any of your symptoms so far?
PATIENT: I, I took a Tylenol. I actually took a couple Tylenols, uh, when the headache and pain started. It did help a bit for a couple hours, but it just kind of came back.
DOCTOR: OK. And in the past, have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions?
PATIENT: Uhm, Just uh, like I had type 2 diabetes, that's it.
DOCTOR: OK, and are you using medications for your diabetes?
PATIENT: Yeah, I've been on Metformin.
DOCTOR: OK, have you used insulin before?
PATIENT: No, no, I've never had to use insulin. It's pretty stable, like my family doctors even considering taking me off the metformin.
DOCTOR: OK, no, that's great. And that reminds me, actually, how has your weight been over the last several months? Have you had any weight changes?
PATIENT: Not really, like I, I, I think over the last two years I've just been very focused on my fitness, so I feel like I've probably lost around 30 pounds over the last year. Last one to two, yeah, year, but like I, I've been exercising a lot like uhm, gym every day, it's, it's been, it's been a journey.
DOCTOR: no that's great though, good for you. I encourage you to keep that up for sure. OK, and so do you take any other medications, other, over the counter or prescribed?
PATIENT: Uhm, just a multi vitamins.
DOCTOR: Alright, and do you have any allergies to medications?
PATIENT: No, not that I know of.
DOCTOR: All right. So have you had any hospitalizations or surgeries?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Alright, and uh, anybody in the family have any like lung conditions, heart conditions or diseases that run in the family?
PATIENT: Uh, my, my son actually just recently was diagnosed with asthma. But I think that he gets that from his mom's side.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm, you don't have any asthma or problems breathing like that?
PATIENT: No, nothing like that.
DOCTOR: OK, and right now, so you mentioned your son and wife, is that who you're living with?
PATIENT: Yeah, it's just us three.
DOCTOR: OK, and uh, any exposures to, to anybody who's been sick, either at home or at work or, or any other activities?
PATIENT: Uh, unfortunately I do have to, uh, I'm one of the unlucky ones that still has to go into work. And yeah, it's it's hard to say like at work, there are times when we, like at lunch we eat like without a mask. I don't know if, I didn't notice anyone having any symptoms, but like, I don't know if someone, you know, who knows where anyone has been.
DOCTOR: Yeah, so nobody that you're aware of who's been sick though?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: And everybody at home has been OK?
PATIENT: Yeah, at home everyone's good. I kind of just distance myself into like one room.
DOCTOR: Mhm.
PATIENT: Just in case anything goes wrong.
DOCTOR: OK. And have you traveled anywhere?
PATIENT: No, we've been, we've been at home this whole time.
DOCTOR: OK. And do you smoke cigarettes?
PATIENT: No, I've never smoked.
DOCTOR: OK, so do you, do you smoke marijuana?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Alright and you use any other recreational drugs like cocaine, opioids, heroin? And how, have you used anything like that in the past?
PATIENT: No. Never.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm, and do you drink alcohol?
PATIENT: Yeah, well just occasionally, like I would say maybe, maybe some wine, once, uh, like once every couple days. Maybe a beer on the weekend, but that's it.
DOCTOR: Alright. So I think that was all I wanted to ask on history today. Was there anything else that, that you wanted to add before we go on to the exam and?
PATIENT: Yeah, so I, I, I don't know if I should get a test done, like for covid. Uhm yeah, that's all, just wondering if I, if I can do that here?
DOCTOR: Yeah, so that is something that that is on the differential for what could be causing your symptoms, especially with uhm, starting at having a cough and the nonspecific viral type symptoms with the cough, headache, muscle aches, so certainly could be caused by covid, but there are other reasons for, that could explain these symptoms, such as other types of viral illnesses, and so we will do a PCR swab today, as well as do, well, check your vitals to see if you have a fever now and we'll also maybe send an influenza swab as well, and and do some blood work. But in the meantime, since we're running the covid swab, it will be important to self isolate for the next 14 days and we will let you know what the test results show. But despite, even if they are negative, it will be important to still stay self isolating for the next 14 days.
PATIENT: OK, I'll do that. That sounds good.
DOCTOR: Alright, thank you.