DOCTOR: Um, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Hi, I just came in uh, I just had this sudden, just this morning after I woke up, this sudden shortness of breath and like each time I take a deep breath I'm getting this chest pain.
DOCTOR: Okay, and this just started this morning, you said?
PATIENT: Yeah.
DOCTOR: Were you absolutely fine last night?
PATIENT: Yeah, I didn't have any trouble last night.
DOCTOR: I see, I see, okay. Um, any other, does the chest pain only occur when you're taking a deep breath in?
PATIENT: Yeah, mainly it's during that time.
DOCTOR: Okay, um, have you had any other symptoms such as a headache or cough, or runny nose, congestion, sore throat?
PATIENT: Um, no. No, nothing like that.
DOCTOR: And changes in your bowel movement? Any pain in your belly?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Any urinary symptoms?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Any um, any pain in your legs?
PATIENT: Um, I did notice last, last night and for the last few days that my right calf like, just feels um, painful and it seems a bit more swollen.
DOCTOR: Um, was there anything that you were doing a couple of days ago? Any, say, any flights or periods um, where you might be sitting still or lying still for awhile? Any surgeries, anything like that?
PATIENT: I was, I was just discharged from the hospital um, last week after a hip surgery.
DOCTOR: Um, okay. Were you moving around at home after the hip surgery?
PATIENT: Um not, not really. Like I was, I was told I should move around a bit, but it's been quite hard.
DOCTOR: Um, alright, and do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
PATIENT: Yes, I have uh, high blood pressure, and um, I also have this thing like, like varicose veins.
DOCTOR: Um, do you take any medications?
PATIENT: I, I take this medication called um, lisinopril.
DOCTOR: And any new medications that were started after your hospital stay?
PATIENT: Um, no, they gave me like some pain medications I seem to, uh, um I got hydromorphone medication. I've been trying to stay away from it though, just taking Tylenol instead.
DOCTOR: Is your pain controlled well with Tylenol?
PATIENT: Yeah, I tried to suck it up. I just don't wanna go on those other medications. I've heard like, you can get addicted to them.
DOCTOR: Yeah, that's fair, that's a fair point. But it's also, I guess it's important that you move around at home. Um, so maybe try to, maybe we can increase your Tylenol dose, or maybe um, see if there's another pain med that you can be started on if you're not interested in opioids, just to make sure that you're moving around 'cause that's very important. At the hospital, did you receive an injection in your, in your tummy.
PATIENT: An injection in my tummy, um.
DOCTOR: Every day, once a day?
PATIENT: I think so, yeah I did.
DOCTOR: Okay, okay. Um, alright. And do you have any allergies?
PATIENT: Uh, no allergies.
DOCTOR: Okay, um, and who do you live with?
PATIENT: I live alone. Yeah, right now I live alone in an apartment.
DOCTOR: Were you discharged with any support?
PATIENT: Yeah, I do have a nurse coming in, like every, everyday, but I don't, they, they didn't come like yesterday.
DOCTOR: Okay, okay. Um, and do you smoke, or did you ever smoke in the past?
PATIENT: I used to smoke in, probably in my 20s and 30s, but then I stopped when I had kids and stuff.
DOCTOR: Do you drink alcohol?
PATIENT: Um, yeah, probably uh, a glass, once or twice um, every couple days.
DOCTOR: Um, and sorry. just going back, how much did you smoke in your 20s and 30s and for how many years?
PATIENT: Probably smoked for, probably, 15, 15 years, probably like, like half a pack a day.
DOCTOR: Alright um, and do you consume any marijuana or any recreational drugs?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Okay, alright. Well given your symptoms, um, with the, with the swelling and the pain in the right calf and the difficulties breathing, it's very likely that you have um, and your recent hospitalization and hip injury, um it sounds like you might have something called, or pulmonary embolism, basically, which is a blood clot inside your lungs, and so we'll do a scan of your lungs to see what's going on. We'll also do an ultrasound of your leg, and then um, we might have to treat, uh, this with blood thinners. And we definitely have to hospitalize you, and we'll be measuring your vitals and seeing if you need any oxygen to help you out.
PATIENT: Okay, I'll be, I'll be here for a while then?
DOCTOR: Well, we'll keep you for a bit, at least the next couple of days until your, your breathing gets better. And you've, you've been started on anti, on blood thinners.
PATIENT: Okay.
DOCTOR: And we can be sure that you're, you're doing okay, we'll also continuously monitor your vital signs um, to make sure that you're doing well, and then we'll make sure that you're discharged. We will also get you some physiotherapy here while in the hospital to help you um, mobilize better when you get home. Um, and we'll also do a COVID swab just in case. Did you have any exposures to anyone in the past couple of days before you came, at home, after you came home?
PATIENT: No, I've been just at home, just the nurse.
DOCTOR: I see, I see. Okay, well, we'll do a COVID swab just in case and go from there. Do you have any questions?
PATIENT: No um, yeah, that, that sounds good.
DOCTOR: Okay, great.