DOCTOR: What brings you in today?
PATIENT: So two days ago I started to have this cough. Came out of nowhere. I haven't had a cough before and I, just today I've noticed the fever as well and and I've had a headache the last few days.
DOCTOR: Can you tell me a little bit more about your cough? Has it gotten better or worse over the past two days?
PATIENT: So it, it's a it's been about.. well, it got worse at first and then it's been about the same since then.
DOCTOR: Okay, and is it dry cough or wet cough?
PATIENT: It's dry.
DOCTOR: Okay. Uhm? And does it ever wake you up at night?
PATIENT: No. Well, it kind of happens all throughout the day. Yeah, no, no, it hasn't woken me up at night.
DOCTOR: OK, is there any, are there any triggers? Anything that makes your cough worse?
PATIENT: I can't think of anything really. It just kinda comes on like throughout the day on it spontaneously.
DOCTOR: How do you take any medications to help with your symptoms?
PATIENT: Yeah, some over the counter cold medicines. I tried some to take Tylenol cold and sinus or something like that anyway and it did help me sleep a little bit with that the headache and just haven't been feeling very good, to help with that.
DOCTOR: And tell me about your fever. Did you check it check it, check your temperature?
PATIENT: I did yeah today I checked it and it was, like just over 38 I think like 38.1 or two.
DOCTOR: OK, what about your headache? Where exactly is it?
PATIENT: I kind of feel it all over. It's like a band night feels like it's just around my head and squeezing.
DOCTOR: And, how like if you had to give it a number from one to 10? What number would you give it? With 10 being the worst headache ever?
PATIENT: I would say maybe a 5.
DOCTOR: OK, and you mentioned that the Tylenol helped.
PATIENT: It did, yeah, probably took it down to a two or three. The headache didn't go away entirely. It was sort of still there, but did help.
DOCTOR: Have you had any other symptoms?  Have you had a confusion or is it any fuzziness? Or any flu like symptoms?
PATIENT: Uh, I have felt just tired and, over these last couple of days. That and I have had a sore throat as well.
DOCTOR: Oh, you get OK. OK, what about a runny nose or stuffy nose?
PATIENT: Uh, no, nothing like that.
DOCTOR: Any difficulties breathing?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Any difficulty swallowing with a sore throat?
PATIENT: Ah is a little bit painful, but I've been able to to eat and drink okay, just really takes a little longer.
DOCTOR: Any dizziness or fainting in the past couple of days?
PATIENT: No, nothing like that.
DOCTOR: OK, any rashes or changes in their nails?
PATIENT: No, I haven't had anything like that.
DOCTOR: Any changes in your? I guess have had any chest pain?
PATIENT: No, haven't had any chest pain, haven't had anything like that before.
DOCTOR: Any belly pain?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: any changes in your bowel movement, any diarrhea?
PATIENT: No, no, I haven't had ah, any diarrhea.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm any changes in your urination, any difficulties or any pain or any increase in frequency?
PATIENT: No, I've had a urinary track infections before so I know what that's like. I haven't had any of those symptoms.
DOCTOR: OK, alright, good. And. Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions in the past?
PATIENT: Uhm? No, I haven't. I had surgery on my knee when I was a teenager. I uh tore my ACL but it's been good since then.
DOCTOR: Any hospitalizations?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK, any medications that you're taking, including over the counter meds?
PATIENT: Yeah, I just say I'm on birth control right now. I've been taking it for the last like five years.
DOCTOR: OK, any allergies?
PATIENT: Oh no, I don't think so.
DOCTOR: OK, good. And do you have any medical conditions that run in the family? Including any heart or lung conditions or cancers.
PATIENT: Yeah, my, my aunt had had breast cancer. But ah, and my dad has high blood pressure.
DOCTOR: OK OK uhm. And do you currently smoke?
PATIENT: No, I don't.
DOCTOR: Do you ever smoke in the past?
PATIENT: No, I I I I I've stayed away from that.
DOCTOR: Good. Any marijuana or recreational drugs?
PATIENT: Yeah, sometimes, well, we'll smoke with like friends at a party I guess, but I haven't had any. I haven't done that in awhile.
DOCTOR: Alright. Any alcohol?
PATIENT: Similar like sometimes at a party, but I mean yeah, it's been awhile for something like that, so I haven't really had any alcohol on in months.
DOCTOR: And are you currently working, or?
PATIENT: I am yeah. So it's uh, yeah I work for this tech company so I've been able to do a lot of my stuff at at home.
DOCTOR: OK, uhm. Have you had any exposures to anyone who could potentially be sick?
PATIENT: I will without, well, yeah I there a couple or last weekend. Actually there was a family party that we went to. It was outside, but uh, it, yeah, there's people around. There was nobody that was sick that I'm aware of.
DOCTOR: OK. And and have you traveled anywhere outside the province?
PATIENT: No been besides that, the family party last weekend, but I mean that was just here in town so. It was close by.
DOCTOR: OK, I guess I forgot to ask about a symptom. Have you felt that you've lost your sense of smell or sense of taste? Has it just been different?
PATIENT: Yeah, I said some actually now that you mention it right sense of smell has been different, which is kind of weird, 'cause I I don't have, everybody knows or I don't feel congested or anything. So yeah, but my taste has been OK.
DOCTOR: Good. Well, that's all the questions I had for you. Given that your symptoms sort of sound like you may have a viral or bacterial infection and seeing that you were, you had some exposure to to other people even though they weren't sick, it could, it could be that they, they had some sort of an illness that they could transmit that they weren't just showing symptoms at the time. We will get a covid swab done just to make sure that that's not what's happening. It could be that. And I'll recommend that you continue to, you know, take Tylenol and rest and take care of yourself and if your symptoms worsen or stay the same for long period of time, definitely come back or call public health to get some guidance and try to stay away from others and self isolate for the next couple of days or at least clear covid swabs back or your symptoms improve. Or the next 14 days. So that's all I have for you today. Do you have any questions for me?
PATIENT: No, that sounds really good, thank you.