DOCTOR: What can I do for you?
PATIENT: Hi, so yeah, so I just came in here today at I've been having just this congestion around my nose and face like it's just something that just started an around 5 days ago. And it's been getting worse, but I started to get like these headaches as well as just pain around my cheeks.
DOCTOR: OK. It all started about five days ago. OK alright. Have you, can you tell me about your headaches?
PATIENT: Yeah, so there, I started getting these headaches just two days ago, but like it's more than a headache, it's kind of mainly over the cheeks and then it goes and just above the nose
DOCTOR: I see.
PATIENT: The light kind of up into the forehead.
DOCTOR: Yeah, do you feel like it's worse when you're bending down or squatting?
PATIENT: How I'm not sure, actually.
DOCTOR: OK. Alright, and do you have any other symptoms? Do you have a runny nose or sore throat or cough?
PATIENT: Uhm, I don't have a cough. I don't have a sore throat. I do sometimes get a runny nose though like every every now and then.
DOCTOR: OK. In the past five days?
PATIENT: Yeah, I probably had like, it's usually in the morning I sometimes get a runny nose.
DOCTOR: And what what comes out of your nose? What do you see?
PATIENT: Uhm, over the last week it's kind of like almost like a yellowish discharge.
DOCTOR: Have you had any difficulties breathing?
PATIENT: Uhm no, I I don't, no.
DOCTOR: Like that OK. Have you uhm had any chest pain?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: OK. Uhm any other any other symptoms that you've experienced over the past five days?
PATIENT: I also like I. I do also feel like a fullness and pressure going into my ears as well. And then I'm not sure, but yesterday I was feeling a little warm throughout the day. I didn't get a temperature but I don't know if I had a fever or not.
DOCTOR: Have you had any I guess like weight loss or any night sweats?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: No. OK. Any muscle aches?
PATIENT: No, not that I know.
DOCTOR: Any fatigue or malaise?
PATIENT: I have been feeling a bit tired over the last few days, but I'm I don't know if that's because of this.
DOCTOR: Have you had contact with anyone who could be sick in the past week or two?
PATIENT: Uhm, my my daughter actually had a sore throat, just a, her last week, and she went to see a doctor.
DOCTOR: Uhm, do you know if she had a COVID test done?
PATIENT: Oh yeah, she she did have a COVID test done, that was negative.
DOCTOR: OK, and alright, are you, do you have any medical conditions that you've been diagnosed with?
PATIENT: Uh, I just have a high cholesterol and high blood pressure.
DOCTOR: Do you take medications?
PATIENT: Yeah, so I just take umm, it's like a thiazide diuretic for blood pressure and then just Atorvastatin for cholesterol.
DOCTOR: Any allergies?
PATIENT: Uh, no, no allergies.
DOCTOR: Any medical conditions that run in the family, including any heart conditions or lung conditions or cancers?
PATIENT: Uhm, yeah, so hard conditions, both my dad and uncle have had heart attacks in their 50s. But yeah, that's that's it. That's all, that's all that I know and we also have cancer on my mothers side. My uncle from my mothers side had bladder cancer.
DOCTOR: OK. OK. Uhm, and do you you mentioned that you have a daughter. Do you, who do you currently live with?
PATIENT: I live with my two daughters and my wife.
DOCTOR: OK, and what do you do for, do you work?
PATIENT: Yeah, currently I'm working from home. I'm an accounting clerk.
DOCTOR: Alright, and do you smoke at all or did you smoke in the past?
PATIENT: Yeah, I I, I do smoke but I've cut down significantly in the past few years. I currently only smoke, uh, probably two or three cigarettes a day. I was, I was smoking like almost a pack a day a few years back.
DOCTOR: Oh, that's great. It's great that you're trying to cut down. Do you intend on getting the getting down the smoking even further?
PATIENT: Yeah, that's that's the plan. If I can do that, hopefully by the end of this year, that would be great.
DOCTOR: That's wonderful. Do you smoke marijuana at all?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Uh, do you smoke any recreational drugs?
PATIENT: No.
DOCTOR: Any alcohol?
PATIENT: Alcohol, just, uh, probably just on the weekends or have a couple of beers.
DOCTOR: OK alright, uhm. So, I guess from the symptoms that you've described, it sounds like you likely have a condition called acute rhinosinusitis where you have inflammation of the sinuses in your face and potentially some inflammation in your nose as well, and often it's caused by a virus and it usually gets better in a couple of weeks. And the best thing to do is just conservative management. Try to rest and, if, if you know taking any medications, over the counter medications is helping you feel better, if you feel like Tylenol, sort of reducing some of that pressure or if doing a, taking a steam bath is sort of helping relieve that pressure, try those. Drink a lot of water to try to sort of lear out all that mucus that's that's building up. I'll also do a physical exam and talk to my attending and confirm all this information with him and we can go from there.
PATIENT: Great sounds good, thank you.
DOCTOR: Uhm, also sorry before for in the call because the symptoms are started recently and they do uhm, overlap with some of the symptoms that if patient with COVID might have, it might be a good idea to get a COVID swab done as well, so we'll do that today and you would have to quarantine and stay away from the people at your home as well, until the results are out, and then if it's positive, public health will let you know what to do.
PATIENT: Alright, sounds good. Thank you so much.
DOCTOR: Welcome.